CAN YOU KEEP A 
SECRET 
Sophie Kinsella 




ONE 
Of course I have secrets. 
Of course I do. Everyone has a secret. It's completely normal. I'm 
sure I don't have any 

more than anybody else. 
I'm not talking about big, earth-shattering secrets. Not thepresident-
is-planning-tobombJapan-
and-only-Will-Smith-can-save-the-world type secrets. Just 
normal, everyday 
little secrets. 
Like for example, here are a few random secrets of mine, off the 
top of my head:

 1. My Kate Spade bag is a fake. 
2. I love sweet sherry, the least cool drink in the universe. 
3. I have no idea what NATO stands for. Or even what it is. 
4. I weigh 9 stone 3. Not 8 stone 3, like my boyfriend Connor 
thinks. (Although in my 
defence, I was planning to go on a diet when I told him that. And 
to be fair, it is only one 
number different.) 
5. I've always thought Connor looks a bit like Ken. As in Barbie 
and Ken. 
6. Sometimes, when we're right in the middle of passionate sex, I 
suddenly want to 
laugh. 
7. I lost my virginity in the spare bedroom with Danny Nussbaum, 
while Mum and Dad were downstairs watching Ben Hur . 
8. I've already drunk the wine that Dad told me to lay down for 
twenty years. 
9. Sammy the goldfish at home isn't the same goldfish that Mum 
and Dad gave me to look after when they went to Egypt. 
10. When my colleague Artemis really annoys me, I feed her plant 
orange juice. (Which is pretty much every day.) 
11. I once had this weird lesbian dream about my flatmate Lissy. 
12. My G-string is hurting me. 

13. I've always had this deep down conviction that I'm not like 
everybody else, and there's an amazingly exciting new life waiting 
for me just around the corner. 
14. I have no idea what this guy in the grey suit is going on about. 
15. Plus I've already forgotten his name. 
And I only met him ten minutes ago. 
'We believe in logistical formative alliances,' he's saying in a 
nasal, droning voice, 'both above and below the line.' 
'Absolutely!' I reply brightly, as though to say: Doesn't 
everybody?

 Logistical. What does that mean, again?

 Oh God. What if they ask me? 

Don't be stupid, Emma. They won't suddenly demand, 'What does 
logistical mean?' I'm a 
fellow marketing professional, aren't I? Obviously I know these 
things. 
And anyway, if they mention it again I'll change the subject. Or I'll 
say I'm post-logistical or something. 
The important thing is to keep confident and businesslike. I can do 
this. This is my big chance and I'm not going to screw it up. 
I'm sitting in the offices of Glen Oil's headquarters in Glasgow, 
and as I glance at my reflection in the window, I look just like a 
top businesswoman. My hair is straightened, 
I'm wearing discreet earrings like they tell you to in How-to-winthat-
job articles, and 
I've got on my smart new Jigsaw suit. (At least, it's practically 
new. I got it from the 
Cancer Research shop and sewed on a button to replace the 
missing one, and you can hardly tell.) 

I'm here representing the Panther Corporation, which is where I 
work. The meeting is to finalize a promotional arrangement 
between the new cranberry-flavoured Panther Prime sports drink 
and Glen Oil, and I flew up this morning from London, especially. 
(The company paid, and everything!) 


When I arrived, the Glen Oil marketing guys started on this long, 
show-offy 'who'stravelledthe-
most?' conversation about airmiles and the red-eye to 
Washington – and I think I bluffed pretty convincingly. (Except 
when I said I'd flown Concorde to Ottawa, and it turns out 
Concorde doesn't go to Ottawa.) But the truth is, this is the first 
time I've ever had to travel for a deal. 


OK. The real truth is, this is the first deal I've ever done, full stop. 
I've been at the 
Panther Corporation for eleven months as a marketing assistant, 
and until now all I've been allowed to do is type out copy, arrange 
meetings for other people, get the sandwiches and pick up my 
boss's dry-cleaning. 


So this is kind of my big break. And I've got this secret little hope 
that if I do this well, maybe I'll get promoted. The ad for my job 
said 'possibility of promotion after a year', and on Monday I'm 
having my yearly appraisal meeting with my boss, Paul. I looked 
up 
'Appraisals' in the staff induction book, and it said they are 'an 
ideal opportunity to discuss possibilities for career advancement'. 


Career advancement! At the thought, I feel a familiar stab of 
longing in my chest. It would just show Dad I'm not a complete 
loser. And Mum. And Kerry. If I could go home and casually say, 
'By the way, I've been promoted to Marketing Executive.'


 Emma Corrigan, Marketing Executive.


 Emma Corrigan, Senior Vice-President (Marketing.)


 As long as everything goes well today. Paul said the deal was 
done and dusted and all I had to do was nod and shake their 
hands, and even I should be able to manage that. And so far, I 
reckon it's going really well. 



OK, so I don't understand about 90 per cent of what they're 
saying. But then I didn't understand much of my GCSE French Oral 
either, and I still got a B.

 'Rebranding … analysis … cost-effective …' 

The man in the grey suit is still droning on about something or 
other. As casually as possible, I extend my hand and inch his 
business card towards me so I can read it. 

Doug Hamilton. That's right. OK, I can remember this. Doug. Dug. 
Easy. I'll picture a shovel. Together with a ham . Which … which 
looks ill … and …

 OK, forget this. I'll just write it down. 

I write down 'rebranding' and 'Doug Hamilton' on my notepad and 
give an awkward little wriggle. God, my knickers really are 
uncomfortable. I mean, G-strings are never that comfortable at 
the best of times, in my opinion, but these are particularly bad. 
Which could be because they're two sizes too small. 

Which could possibly be because Connor bought them for me, and 
told the lingerie assistant I weighed eight stone three. Whereupon 
she told him I must be size eight. Size eight!

 (Frankly, I think she was just being mean. She must have known I 
was fibbing.) 

So it's Christmas Eve, and we're exchanging presents, and I 
unwrap this pair of gorgeous pale pink silk knickers. Size eight. 
And I basically have two options. 

A: Confess the truth: 'Actually these are too small, I'm more of a 
12, and by the way, I don't really weigh eight stone three.' Or … 
B: Shoe-horn myself into them. 
Actually, it was fine. You could hardly see the red lines on my skin 
afterwards. And all it meant was that I had to quickly cut all the 
labels out of my clothes so Connor would never realize. 

Since then, I've hardly ever worn this particular set of underwear, 
needless to say. But every so often I see them looking all nice and 
expensive in the drawer and think, Oh come on, they can't be that 
tight, and somehow squeeze into them. Which is what I did this 
morning. I even decided I must have lost weight, because they 
didn't feel too bad.

 I am such a deluded moron. 

'… unfortunately since rebranding … major rethink … feel we 
need to be considering alternative synergies …' 

Up to now I've just been sitting and nodding, thinking this 
business meeting lark is really easy. But now Doug Hamilton's 
voice starts to impinge on my consciousness. What's he saying?

 '… two products diverging … becoming incompatible …' 

What was that about incompatible? What was that about a major 
rethink? I feel a jolt of alarm. Maybe this isn't just waffle. Maybe 
he's actually saying something. Quick, listen. 

'We appreciate the functional and synergetic partnership that 
Panther and Glen Oil have enjoyed in the past,' Doug Hamilton is 
saying. 'But you'll agree that clearly we're going in different 
directions.'

 Different directions?

 Is that what he's been talking about all this time?

 My stomach gives an anxious lurch.

 He can't be—

 Is he trying to pull out of the deal? 


'Excuse me, Doug,' I say, in my most relaxed voice. 'Obviously I 
was closely following what you were saying earlier.' I give a 
friendly, we're-all-professionals-together smile. 
'But if you could just … um, recap the situation for all our benefits 
…'

 In plain English, I beg silently.

 Doug Hamilton and the other guy exchange glances.

 'We're a little unhappy about your brand values,' says Doug 
Hamilton.

 'My brand values?' I echo in panic. 

'The brand values of the product ,' he says, giving me an odd 
look. 'As I've been explaining, we here at Glen Oil are going 
through a rebranding process at the moment, and we see our new 
image very much as a caring petrol, as our new daffodil logo 
demonstrates. And we feel Panther Prime, with its emphasis on 
sport and competition, is simply too aggressive.'

 'Aggressive?' I stare at him, bewildered. 'But … it's a fruit drink.' 

This makes no sense. Glen Oil is fume-making, world-ruining 
petrol. Panther Prime is an innocent cranberry-flavoured drink. 
How can it be too aggressive? 

'The values it espouses.' He gestures to the marketing brochures 
on the table. 'Drive. Elitism. Masculinity. The very slogan, "Don't 
Pause". Frankly, it seems a little dated.' He shrugs. 'We just don't 
think a joint initiative will be possible.'

 No. No. This can't be happening. He can't be pulling out. 

Everyone at the office will think it was my fault. They'll think I 
cocked it up and I'm completely crap. 


My heart is thumping. My face is hot. I can't let this happen. But 
what do I say? I haven't prepared anything. Paul said it was all set 
up and all I had to do was shake their hands. 

'We'll certainly discuss it again before we make a decision,' 
Doug's saying. He gives me a brief smile. 'And as I say, we would 
like to continue links with the Panther Corporation, so this has 
been a useful meeting in any case.'

 He's pushing back his chair. 
I can't let this slip away! I have to try to win them round. I have to 
try and shut the deal. 
Close the deal. That's what I meant. 
'Wait!' I hear myself say. 'Just … wait a moment! I have a few 
points to make.' 
What am I talking about? I have no points to make. 
There's a can of Panther Prime sitting on the desk, and I grab it for 
inspiration. Playing for time, I stand up, walk to the centre of the 
room and raise the can high into the air where we can all see it. 

'Panther Prime is … a sports drink.' 

I stop, and there's a polite silence. My face is prickling.

 'It … um … it is very …' 

Oh God. What am I doing? 

Come on , Emma. Think . Think Panther Prime … think Panther 
Cola … think … think 
… 

Yes! Of course!

 OK, start again. 


'Since the launch of Panther Cola in the late 1980s, Panther drinks 
have been a byword 
for energy, excitement and excellence,' I say fluently. 


Thank God. This is the standard marketing blurb for Panther Cola. 
I've typed it out so 
many zillions of times, I could recite it in my sleep.


 'Panther drinks are a marketing phenomenon,' I continue. 'The 
Panther character is one of 


the most widely recognized in the world, while the classic slogan 
"Don't Pause" has made 
it into dictionaries. We are now offering Glen Oil an exclusive 
opportunity to join with 
this premium, world-famous brand.'


 My confidence growing, I start to stride around the room, 
gesturing with the can. 


'By buying a Panther health drink, the consumer is signalling that 
he will settle for 
nothing but the best.' I hit the can sharply with my other hand. 
'He expects the best from 


his energy drink, he expects the best from his petrol, he expects 
the best from himself.'


 I'm flying! I'm fantastic! If Paul could see me now, he'd give me a 
promotion on the spot! 


I come over to the desk and look Doug Hamilton right in the eye. 
'When the Panther 


consumer opens that can, he is making a choice which tells the 
world who he is. I'm 



asking Glen Oil to make the same choice.' 
As I finish speaking I plant the can firmly in the middle of the 
desk, reach for the ring 
pull and, with a cool smile, snap it back. 
It's like a volcano erupting. 
Fizzy cranberry-flavoured drink explodes in a whoosh out of the 
can, landing on the 
desk, drenching the papers and blotters in lurid red liquid … and 
oh no, please no … 
spattering all over Doug Hamilton's shirt. 
'Fuck!' I gasp. 'I mean, I'm really sorry …' 

'Jesus Christ,' says Doug Hamilton irritably, standing up and 
getting a handkerchief out 
of his pocket. 'Does this stuff stain?'


 'Er …' I grab the can helplessly. 'I don't know.' 
'I'll get a cloth,' says the other guy, and leaps to his feet. 


The door closes behind him and there's silence, apart from the 
sound of cranberry drink 
dripping slowly onto the floor.


 I stare at Doug Hamilton, my face hot and blood throbbing 
through my ears. 
'Please …' I say, and clear my husky throat. 'Don't tell my boss.' 

After all that. I screwed it up. 
As I drag my heels across the concourse at Glasgow Airport, I feel 
completely dejected. 



Doug Hamilton was quite sweet in the end. He said he was sure 
the stain would come 
out, and promised he wouldn't tell Paul what happened. But he 
didn't change his mind 


about the deal.


 My first big meeting. My first big chance – and this is what 
happens. I feel like giving up 
on the whole thing. I feel like phoning the office and saying 'That's 
it, I'm never coming 
back again, and by the way, it was me who jammed the 
photocopier that time.' 


But I can't. This is my third career in four years. It has to work. For 
my own self-worth. 
For my own self-esteem. And also because I owe my dad four 
thousand quid. 


'So what can I get you?' says an Australian guy, and I look up 
dazedly. I've arrived at the 
airport with an hour to go, and have headed straight for the bar.


 'Erm …' My mind is blank. 'Er … white wine. No, actually, a vodka 
and tonic. Thanks.' 


As he moves away, I slump down again in my stool. An air hostess 
with a French plait 
comes and sits down, two bar stools away. She smiles at me, and I 
smile weakly in return. 


I don't know how other people manage their careers, I really 
don't. Like my oldest friend 
Lissy. She's always known she wanted to be a lawyer – and now, 
ta-daah! She's a fraud 
barrister. But I left college with absolutely no clue. My first job was 
in estate agency, and 
I only went into it because I've always quite liked looking round 
houses, plus I met this 



woman with amazing red lacquered nails at a career fair who told 
me she made so much 
money, she'd be able to retire when she was forty. 

But the minute I started, I hated it. I hated all the other trainee 
estate agents. I hated 
saying things like 'a lovely aspect'. And I hated the way if 
someone said they could afford 
.300,000 we were supposed to give them details of houses 
costing at least .400,000, and 
then kind of look down our noses, like, 'You only have .300,000? 
God, you complete 
loser.' 

So after six months I announced I was changing career and was 
going to be a 
photographer instead. It was such a fantastic moment, like in a 
film or something. My dad 
lent me the money for a photography course and camera, and I 
was going to launch this 
amazing new creative career, and it was going to be the start of 
my new life …

 Except it didn't quite happen like that.

 I mean, for a start, do you have any idea how much a 
photographer's assistant gets paid?

 Nothing. It's nothing. 

Which, you know, I wouldn't have minded if anyone had actually 
offered me a 
photographer's assistant's job. 

I heave a heavy sigh, and gaze at my doleful expression in the 
mirror behind the bar. As 
well as everything else, my hair, which I carefully straightened 
with serum this morning, 


has gone all frizzy. Typical. 


At least I wasn't the only one who didn't get anywhere. Out of the 
eight people on my 
course, one became instantly successful and now takes photos for 
Vogue and stuff, one 
became a wedding photographer, one had an affair with the tutor, 
one went travelling, one 
had a baby, one works at Snappy Snaps and one is now at Morgan 
Stanley. 


Meanwhile I got more and more into debt, and started temping 
and applying for jobs 
which actually paid money. And eventually, eleven months ago, I 
started as a marketing 
assistant at the Panther Corporation. 


The barman places a vodka and tonic in front of me, and gives me 
a quizzical look. 
'Cheer up!' he says. 'It can't be that bad!' 


'Thanks,' I say gratefully, and take a sip. That feels a bit better. 
I'm just taking a second 


sip when my mobile starts to ring.


 My stomach gives a nervous flip. If it's the office, I'll just pretend I 
didn't hear.


 But it's not, it's our home number flashing on the little screen.


 'Hi,' I say, pressing green.


 'Hiya!' comes Lissy's voice. 'Only me! So how did it go?' 


Lissy is my flatmate and my oldest friend in the world. She has 
tufty dark hair and an IQ 


of about 600 and is the sweetest person I know. 



 'It was a disaster,' I say miserably.

 'What happened? Didn't you get the deal?' 

'Not only did I not get the deal, I drenched the marketing director 
of Glen Oil in 
cranberry drink.' 


Along the bar, I can see the air hostess hiding a smile, and I feel 
myself flush. Great. 
Now the whole world knows. 


'Oh dear.' I can almost feel Lissy trying to think of something 
positive to say. 'Well, at 
least you got their attention,' she says at last. 'At least they won't 
forget you in a hurry.'


 'I suppose,' I say morosely. 'So, did I have any messages?'


 'Oh! Erm … no. I mean, your dad did phone, but … um … you 
know … it wasn't …' She 
tails off evasively. 


'Lissy. What did he want?' 
There's a pause. 
'Apparently your cousin's won some industry award,' she says 
apologetically. 'They're 


going to be celebrating it on Saturday as well as your mum's 
birthday.' 
'Oh. Great.' 
I slump deeper in my chair. That's all I need. My cousin Kerry 
triumphantly clutching 


some silver Best-travel-agent-in-the-world-no-make-that-universe 
trophy. 



'And Connor rang, too, to see how you got on,' adds Lissy quickly. 
'He was really sweet, 


he said he didn't want to ring your mobile during your meeting in 
case it disturbed you.' 
'Really?' 
For the first time today, I feel a lift in spirits. 
Connor. My boyfriend. My lovely, thoughtful boyfriend. 


'He's such a sweetheart!' Lissy is saying. 'He said he's tied up in a 
big meeting all 
afternoon but he's cancelled his squash game especially, so do 
you want to go out to 
supper tonight?'


 'Oh,' I say, with a flicker of pleasure. 'Oh well, that'll be nice. 
Thanks, Lissy.' 
I click off and take another sip of vodka, feeling much more 
cheerful. 
My boyfriend. 
It's just like Julie Andrews said. When the dog bites, when the bee 
stings … I simply 


remember I have a boyfriend – and suddenly things don't seem 
quite so completely shit. 
Or however she put it. 
And not just any boyfriend. A tall, handsome, clever boyfriend, 
whom Marketing Week 


called 'one of the brightest sparks in marketing research today.' 
I sit nursing my vodka, allowing thoughts of Connor to roll round 
my brain and comfort 
me. The way his blond hair shines in the sunshine, and the way 
he's always smiling. And 



the way he upgraded all the software on my computer the other 
day without me even 
asking, and the way he … he … 
My mind's gone blank. This is ridiculous. I mean, there's so much 
that is wonderful 
about Connor. From his … his long legs. Yes. And his broad 
shoulders. To the time he 

looked after me when I had the flu. I mean, how many boyfriends 
do that? Exactly.

 I'm so lucky, I really am. 

I put the phone away, run my fingers through my hair, and glance 
at the clock behind the 

bar. Forty minutes to go before the flight. Not long now. Nerves 
are starting to creep over 
me like little insects, and I take a deep gulp of vodka, draining my 
glass.

 It'll be fine, I tell myself for the zillionth time. It'll be absolutely 
fine.

 I'm not frightened. I'm just … I'm just …

 OK. I am frightened.

 16. I'm scared of flying. 
I've never told anyone I'm scared of flying. It just sounds so lame. 
And I mean, it's not 
like I'm phobic or anything. It's not like I can't get on a plane. It's 
just … all things being 
equal, I would prefer to be on the ground. 
I never used to be scared. But over the last few years, I've 
gradually got more and more 
nervous. I know it's completely irrational. I know thousands of 
people fly every day and 


it's practically safer than lying in bed. You have less chance of 
being in a plane crash than 
… than finding a man in London, or something.

 But still. I just don't like it.

 Maybe I'll have another quick vodka. 

By the time my flight is called, I've drunk two more vodkas and 
am feeling a lot more 
positive. I mean, Lissy's right. At least I made an impression, 
didn't I? At least they'll 
remember who I am. As I stride towards the gate, clutching my 
briefcase, I almost start to 
feel like a confident businesswoman again. A couple of people 
smile at me as they pass, 
and I smile broadly back, feeling a warm glow of friendliness. You 
see. The world's not 
so bad after all. It's all just a question of being positive. Anything 
can happen in life, can't 
it? You never know what's round the next corner. 

I reach the entrance to the plane, and there at the door, taking 
boarding passes, is the air 
hostess with the French plait who was sitting at the bar earlier.

 'Hi again,' I say smiling. 'This is a coincidence!' 

The air hostess stares at me.

 'Hi. Erm …' 

'What?' 

Why does she look embarrassed?

 'Sorry. It's just … did you know that …' She gestures awkwardly to 
my front. 


 'What is it?' I say, pleasantly. I look down, and freeze, aghast. 


Somehow my silky shirt has been unbuttoning itself while I've 
been walking along. 
Three buttons have come undone and it's gaping at the front.


 My bra shows. My pink lacy bra. The one that went a bit blobby in 
the wash. 


That's why those people were smiling at me. Not because the 
world is a nice place, but 
because I'm Pink-Blobby-Bra-Woman. 


'Thanks,' I mutter, and do up the buttons with rumbling fingers, 
my face hot with 
humiliation. 


'It hasn't been your day, has it?' says the air hostess 
sympathetically, holding out a hand 
for my boarding pass. 'Sorry, I couldn't help overhearing, earlier.' 


'That's all right.' I raise a half-smile. 'No, it hasn't been the best 
day of my life.' There's a 
short silence as she studies my boarding pass.


 'Tell you what,' she says in a low voice. 'Would you like an onboard 
upgrade?'


 'A what?' I stare at her blankly.


 'Come on. You deserve a break.'


 'Really? But … can you just upgrade people like that?' 


'If there are spare seats, we can. We use our discretion. And this 
flight is so short.' She 
gives me a conspiratorial smile. 'Just don't tell everyone, OK?' 



She leads me into the front section of the plane and gestures to a 
big, wide, comfortable 
seat. I've never been upgraded before in my life! I can't quite 
believe she's really letting 
me do this. 

'Is this first class?' I whisper, taking in the hushed, luxury 
atmosphere. A man in a smart 
suit is tapping at a laptop to my right, and two elderly women in 
the corner are plugging 
themselves into headsets. 

'Business class. There's no first class on this flight.' She lifts her 
voice to a normal 
volume. 'Is everything OK for you?' 

'It's perfect! Thanks very much.' 

'No problem.' She smiles again and walks away, and I push my 
briefcase under the seat 
in front. 

Wow. This really is lovely. Big wide seats, and footrests, and 
everything. This is going to 
be a completely pleasurable experience from start to finish, I tell 
myself firmly. I reach 
for my seatbelt and buckle it up nonchalantly, trying to ignore the 
flutters of apprehension 

in my stomach.

 'Would you like some champagne?'

 It's my friend the air hostess, beaming down at me.

 'That would be great,' I say. 'Thanks!'

 Champagne! 


 'And for you, sir? Some champagne?' 

The man in the seat next to mine hasn't even looked up yet. He's 
wearing jeans and an 

old sweatshirt and is staring out of the window. As he turns to 
answer I catch a glimpse of 
dark eyes, stubble; a deep frown etched on his forehead.

 'No thanks. Just a brandy. Thanks.' 

His voice is dry and has an American accent. I'm about to ask him 
politely where he's 
from, but he immediately turns back and stares out of the window 
again. 

Which is fine, because to be honest, I'm not much in the mood for 
talking either. 

TWO

 OK. The truth is, I don't like this. 

I know it's business class, I know it's all lovely luxury. But my 
stomach is still a tight 
knot of fear. 

While we were taking off I counted very slowly with my eyes 
closed, and that kind of 
worked. But I ran out of steam at about 350. So now I'm just 
sitting, sipping champagne, 
reading an article on '30 Things To Do Before You're 30' in Cosmo . 
I'm trying very hard 
to look like a relaxed business-class top marketing executive. But 
oh God. Every tiny 
sound makes me start; every judder makes me catch my breath. 


With an outward veneer of calm I reach for the laminated safety 
instructions and run my eyes over them. Safety exits. Brace 
position. If life jackets are required, please assist the 
elderly and children first. Oh God— 

Why am I even looking at this? How will it help me to gaze at 
pictures of little stick 
people jumping into the ocean while their plane explodes behind 
them? I stuff the safety 
instructions quickly back in their pocket and take a gulp of 
champagne. 

'Excuse me, madam.' An air hostess with red curls has appeared 
by my side. 'Are you 
travelling on business?'

 'Yes,' I say, smoothing down my hair with a prickle of pride. 'Yes I 
am.' 

She hands me a leaflet entitled 'Executive Facilities', on which 
there's a photo of 
businesspeople talking animatedly in front of a clipboard with a 
wavy graph on it. 

'This is some information about our new business class lounge at 
Gatwick. We provide 
full conference call facilities, and meeting rooms, should you 
require them. Would you be 
interested?'

 OK. I am a top businesswoman. I am a top highflying business 
executive. 

'Quite possibly,' I say, looking nonchalantly at the leaflet. 'Yes, I 
may well use one of 
these rooms to … brief my team. I have a large team, and 
obviously they need a lot of 


briefing. On business matters.' I clear my throat. 'Mostly … 
logistical.' 
'Would you like me to book you a room now?' says the hostess 

helpfully. 
'Er, no thanks,' I say after a pause, 'My team is currently … at 
home. I gave them all the 


day off.' 
'Right.' The hostess looks a little puzzled. 


'But another time, maybe,' I say quickly. 'And while you're here – I 
was just wondering, 
'is that sound normal?'


 'What sound?' The air hostess cocks her head. 
That sound. That kind of whining, coming from the wing?' 
'I can't hear anything.' She looks at me sympathetically. 'Are you 
a nervous flyer?'

 'No!' I say at once, and give a little laugh. 'No, I'm not nervous ! I 
just … was wondering. 
Just out of interest.' 
'I'll see if I can find out for you,' she says kindly. 'Here you are, sir. 

Some information 

about our executive facilities at Gatwick.' 
The American man takes his leaflet wordlessly and puts it down 
without even looking at 
it, and the hostess moves on, staggering a little as the plane gives 
a bump. 


Why is the plane bumping? 


Oh God. A sudden rush of fear hits me with no warning. This is 
madness. Madness! 
Sitting in this big heavy box, with no way of escape, thousands 
and thousands of feet 
above the ground … 


I can't do this on my own. I have an overpowering need to talk to 
someone. Someone 
reassuring. Someone safe.


 Connor. 


Instinctively I fish out my mobile phone, but immediately the air 
hostess swoops down 
on me. 


'I'm afraid you can't use that on board the plane,' she says with a 
bright smile. 'Could you 
please ensure that it's switched off?'


 'Oh. Er … sorry.' 


Of course I can't use my mobile. They've only said it about fiftyfive 
zillion times. I am 
such a durr-brain. Anyway, never mind. It doesn't matter. I'm fine. 
I put the phone away 
in my bag, and try to concentrate on an old episode of Fawlty 
Towers which is showing 
on the screen. 


Maybe I'll start counting again. Three hundred and forty-nine. 
Three hundred and fifty. 
Three hundred and—


 Fuck. My head jerks up. What was that bump? Did we just get 
hit ? 



OK, don't panic. It was just a bump. I'm sure everything's fine. We 
probably just flew 
into a pigeon or something. Where was I? 


Three hundred and fifty-one. Three hundred and fifty-two. Three 
hundred and fifty— 


And that's it. 


That's the moment.


 Everything seems to fragment.


 I hear the screams like a wave over my head, almost before I 
realize what's happening. 


Oh God. Oh God Oh God Oh God Oh … OH … NO. NO. NO. 
We're falling. Oh God, we're falling. 
We're plummeting downwards. The plane's dropping through the 
air like a stone. A man 


over there has just shot up through the air and banged his head 
on the ceiling. He's 
bleeding. I'm gasping, clutching onto my seat, trying not to do the 
same thing, but I can 
feel myself being wrenched upwards, it's like someone's tugging 
me, like gravity's 
suddenly switched the other way. There's no time to think. My 
mind can't … Bags are 
flying around, drinks are spilling, one of the cabin crew has fallen 
over, she's clutching at 
a seat …


 Oh God. Oh God. OK, it's slowing down now. It's … it's better. 
Fuck. I just … I just can't … I … 
I look at the American man, and he's grasping his seat as tightly 
as I am. 
I feel sick. I think I might be sick. Oh God. 



OK. It's … it's kind of … back to normal. 
'Ladies and gentlemen,' comes a voice over the intercom, and 
everyone's heads jerk up. 


'This is your captain speaking.' 
My heart's juddering in my chest. I can't listen. I can't think. 
'We're currently hitting some clear-air turbulence, and things may 
be unsteady for a 


while. I have switched on the seatbelt signs and would ask that 
you all return to your 
seats as quickly as—' 
There's another huge lurch, and his voice is drowned by screams 
and cries all round the 
plane. 
It's like a bad dream. A bad rollercoaster dream. 


The cabin crew are all strapping themselves into their seats. One 
of the hostesses is 
mopping blood on her face. A minute ago they were happily 
doling out honey-roast 
peanuts. 


This is what happens to other people in other planes. People on 
safety videos. Not me. 
'Please keep calm,' the captain is saying. 'As soon as we have 
more information …' 
Keep calm ? I can't breathe, let alone keep calm. What are we 
going to do? Are we all 


supposed to just sit here while the plane bucks like an out-ofcontrol 
horse? 


I can hear someone behind me reciting 'Hail Mary, full of grace …' 
and a fresh, choking 



panic sweeps through me. People are praying. This is real. 

We're going to die. 

We're going to die.

 'I'm sorry?' The American man in the next seat looks at me, his 
face tense and white.


 Did I just say that aloud? 


'We're going to die.' I stare into his face. This could be the last 
person I ever see alive. I 
take in the lines etched around his dark eyes; his strong jaw, 
shaded with stubble. 


The plane suddenly drops down again, and I give an involuntary 
shriek. 


'I don't think we're going to die,' he says. But he's gripping his 
seat-arms, too. 'They said 
it was just turbulence—' 


'Of course they did!' I can hear the hysteria in my voice. 'They 
wouldn't exactly say, "OK 
folks, that's it, you're all goners"!' The plane gives another 
terrifying swoop and I find 
myself clutching the man's hand in panic. 'We're not going to 
make it. I know we're not. 
This is it. I'm twenty-five years old, for God's sake. I'm not ready. I 
haven't achieved 
anything. I've never had children, I've never saved a life …' My 
eyes fall randomly on the 
'30 Things To Do Before You're 30' article. 'I haven't ever climbed 
a mountain, I haven't 
got a tattoo, I don't even know if I've got a G spot …'


 'I'm sorry?' says the man, sounding taken aback, but I barely 
hear him. 



'My career's a complete joke. I'm not a top businesswoman at all.' 
I gesture half-tearfully 
to my suit. 'I haven't got a team! I'm just a crappy assistant and I 
just had my first ever big 
meeting and it was a complete disaster. Half the time I haven't 
got a clue what people are 
talking about, I don't know what logistical means, I'm never going 
to get promoted, and I 
owe my dad four thousand quid, and I've never really been in love 
…' 

I draw myself up short with a jolt. 'I'm sorry,' I say, and exhale 
sharply. 'You don't want 
to hear all this.'

 'That's quite all right,' says the man.

 God. I'm completely losing it.

 And anyway, what I just said wasn't true. Because I am in love 
with Connor. It must be 
the altitude or something, confusing my mind. 

Flustered, I push the hair off my face and try to get a hold of 
myself. OK, let's try 
counting again. Three hundred and fifty … six. Three hundred and 
—

 Oh God. Oh God. No. Please. The plane's lurching again. We're 
plummeting. 

'I've never done anything to make my parents proud of me.' The 
words come spilling out 
of my mouth before I can stop them. 'Never.'

 'I'm sure that's not true,' says the man nicely. 


'It's true. Maybe they used to be proud of me. But then my cousin 
Kerry came to live 
with us and all at once it was like my parents couldn't see me any 
more. All they could 
see was her. She was fourteen when she arrived, and I was ten, 
and I thought it was going 
to be great, you know. Like having an older sister. But it didn't 
work out like that …'

 I can't stop talking. I just can't stop. 

Every time the plane bumps or jolts, another torrent of words 
pours randomly out of my 

mouth, like water gushing over a waterfall.

 It's either talk or scream. 

'… she was a swimming champion, and an everything champion, 
and I was just … 

nothing in comparison …'

 '… photography course and I honestly thought it was going to 
change my life …'

 '… eight stone three. But I was planning to go on a diet …'

 'I applied for every single job in the world. I was so desperate, I 
even applied to …' 

'… awful girl called Artemis. This new desk arrived the other day, 
and she just took it, 

even though I've got this really grotty little desk …'

 '… sometimes I water her stupid spider plant with orange juice, 
just to serve her right …' 


'… sweet girl Katie, who works in Personnel. We have this secret 
code where she comes 


in and says, "Can I go through some numbers with you, Emma?" 
and it really means 
"Shall we nip out to Starbucks …"'


 '… awful presents, and I have to pretend I like them …'


 '… coffee at work is the most disgusting stuff you've ever drunk, 
absolute poison …' 


'… put "Maths GCSE grade A" on my CV, when I really only got C. I 
know it was 
dishonest. I know I shouldn't have done it, but I so wanted to get 
the job …' 


What's happened to me? Normally there's a kind of filter which 
stops me blurting out 
everything I'm thinking; which keeps me in check. 


But the filter's stopped working. Everything's piling out in a big, 
random stream, and I 
can't stop it. 


'Sometimes I think I believe in God, because how else did we all 
get here? But then I 
think, yes but what about war and stuff …'


 '… wear G-strings because they don't give you VPL. But they're 
so uncomfortable …' 


'… size eight, and I didn't know what to do, so I just said "Wow 
those are absolutely 
fantastic …"'


 '… roasted peppers, my complete favourite food …' 



'… joined a book group, but I just couldn't get through Great 
Expectations . So I just 
skimmed the back and pretended I'd read it …'


 '… I gave him all his goldfish food, I honestly don't know what 
happened …'


 '… just have to hear that Carpenters song "Close to You" and I 
start crying …'


 '… really wish I had bigger boobs. I mean, not Page 3 size, not 
completely enormous and 
stupid, but you know, bigger. Just to know what it's like …' 


'… perfect date would start off with champagne just appearing at 
the table, as if by 
magic …' 


'… I just cracked, I secretly bought this huge tub of Haagen-Dazs 
and scoffed the lot, 
and I never told Lissy …' 


I'm unaware of anything around us. The world has narrowed to me 
and this stranger, and 
my mouth, spewing out all my innermost thoughts and secrets.


 I barely know what I'm saying any more. All I know is, it feels 
good.


 Is this what therapy is like? 


'… name was Danny Nussbaum. Mum and Dad were downstairs 
watching Ben Hur , and 
I remember thinking, if this is what the world gets so excited 
about, then the world's mad 
…'


 '… lie on my side, because that way your cleavage looks bigger 
…' 



'… works in market research. I remember thinking the very first 
time I saw him, wow, 
he's good-looking, He's very tall and blond, because he's half-
Swedish, and he has these 
amazing blue eyes. So he asked me out …'


 '… always have a glass of sweet sherry before a date, just to 
calm my nerves …' 


'He's wonderful. Connor's completely wonderful. I'm just so lucky. 
Everyone's always 
telling me how great he is. He's sweet, and he's good, and he's 
successful and everyone 
calls us the perfect couple …' 


'… I'd never tell anyone this in a million years. But sometimes I 
think he's almost too 
good-looking. A bit like one of those dolls? Like Ken. Like a blond 
Ken.' 


And now I'm on the subject of Connor, I'm saying things I've never 
said to anyone. 
Things I never even realized were in my head. 


'… gave him this lovely leather watch for Christmas, but he wears 
this orange digital 
thing because it can tell him the temperature in Poland or 
something stupid …' 


'… took me to all these jazz concerts and I pretended to enjoy 
them to be polite, so now 
he thinks I love jazz …' 


'… every single Woody Allen film off by heart and says each line 
before it comes and it 
drives me crackers …' 



 '… just looks at me as though I'm speaking some foreign 
language …' 

'… determined to find my G spot, so we spent the whole weekend 
doing it in different 
positions, and by the end I was just knackered, all I wanted was a 
pizza and Friends …' 

'… he kept saying, what was it like, what was it like? So in the end 
I just made some 
stuff up, I said it was absolutely amazing, and it felt as though my 
whole body was 
opening up like a flower, and he said, what sort of flower, so I said 
a begonia …' 

'… can't expect the initial passion to last. But how do you tell if 
the passion's faded in a 
good, long-term-commitment way or in a crap, we-don't-fancyeach-
other-any-more way 
…' 

'… knight in shining armour is not a realistic option. But there's a 
part of me that wants a 
huge, amazing romance. I want passion. I want to be swept off my 
feet. I want an 
earthquake, or a … I don't know, a huge whirlwind … something 
exciting . Sometimes I 
feel as if there's this whole new, thrilling life waiting for me out 
there, and if I can just—'

 'Excuse me, miss?' 

'What?' I look up dazedly. 'What is it?' The air hostess with the 
French plait is smiling 

down at me.

 'We've landed.' I stare at her. 


 'We've landed ?' 
This doesn't make sense. How can we have landed? I look around 


– and sure enough, the 
plane's still. We're on the ground. 
I feel like Dorothy. A second ago I was swirling around in Oz, 
clicking my heels 
together, and now I've woken up all flat and quiet and normal 

again. 
'We aren't bumping any more,' I say stupidly. 
'We stopped bumping quite a while ago,' says the American man. 
'We're … we're not going to die.' 
'We're not going to die,' he agrees. 

I look at him as though for the first time – and it hits me. I've been 

blabbering non-stop 
for an hour to this complete stranger. God alone knows what I've 
been saying.

 I think I want to get off this plane right now. 
'I'm sorry,' I say awkwardly. 'You should have stopped me.' 


'That would have been a little difficult.' There's a tiny smile at his 
lips. 'You were on a bit 
of a roll.' 
'I'm so embarrassed!' I try to smile, but I can't even look this guy 


in the eye. I mean, I 
told him about my knickers. I told him about my G spot . 



'Don't worry about it. We were all stressed out. That was some 
flight.' He picks up his 
knapsack and gets up from his seat – then looks back at me. 'Will 
you be OK getting back 

home?'

 'Yes. I'll be fine. Thanks. Enjoy your visit!' I call after him, but I 
don't think he hears. 

Slowly I gather my things together and make my way off the 
plane. I feel sweaty, my 

hair's all over the place, and my head is starting to throb. 

The airport seems so bright and still and calm after the intense 
atmosphere of the plane. 
The ground seems so firm. I sit quietly on a plastic chair for a 
while, trying to get myself 
together, but as I stand up at last, I still feel dazed. I walk along in 
a slight blur, hardly 
able to believe I'm here. I'm alive. I honestly never thought I'd 
make it back on the 

ground. 
'Emma!' I hear someone calling as I come out of Arrivals, but I 
don't look up. There are 

loads of Emmas in this world.

 'Emma! Over here!'

 I raise my head in disbelief. Is that …

 No. It can't be, it can't—

 It's Connor. 


He looks heart-breakingly handsome. His skin has that 
Scandinavian tan, and his eyes 


are bluer than ever, and he's running towards me. This makes no 
sense. What's he doing 
here? As we reach each other he grabs me and pulls me tight to 
his chest.


 'Thank God,' he says huskily. 'Thank God. Are you OK?'


 'Connor, what— what are you doing here?' 


'I phoned the airline to ask what time you'd be landing, and they 
told me the plane had 
hit terrible turbulence. I just had to come to the airport.' He gazes 
down at me. 'Emma, I 
watched your plane land. They sent an ambulance straight out to 
it. Then you didn't 
appear. I thought …' He swallows hard. 'I don't know exactly what 
I thought.' 


'I'm fine. I was just … trying to get myself together. Oh God, 
Connor, it was terrifying.' 
My voice is suddenly all shaky, which is ridiculous, because I'm 
perfectly safe now. 'At 
one point I honestly thought I was going to die.' 


'When you didn't come through the barrier …' Connor breaks off 
and stares at me 
silently for a few seconds. 'I think I realized for the first time quite 
how deeply I feel 
about you.'


 'Really?' I falter. 
My heart's thumping. I think I might fall over at any moment. 
'Emma, I think we should …' 
Get married? My heart jumps in fear. Oh my God. He's going to 
ask me to marry him, 



right here in the airport. What am I going to say? I'm not ready to 
get married. But if I say 
no he'll stalk off in a huff. Shit. OK. What I'll say is, Gosh, Connor, I 
need a little time to 
…


 '… move in together,' he finishes. 


I am such a deluded moron. Obviously he wasn't going to ask me 
to marry him. 
'What do you think?' he strokes my hair gently. 
'Erm …' I rub my dry face, playing for time, unable to think 
straight. Move in with 


Connor. It kind of makes sense. Is there a reason why not? I feel 
all confused. 
Something's tugging at my brain; trying to send me a message … 


And into my head slide some of the things I said on the plane. 
Something about never 
having been properly in love. Something about Connor not really 
understanding me. 


But then … that was just drivel, wasn't it? I mean, I thought I was 
about to die, for God's 
sake. I wasn't exactly at my most lucid.


 'Connor, what about your big meeting?' I say, suddenly recalling.


 'I cancelled it.'


 'You cancelled it?' I stare at him. 'For me?' 


I feel really wobbly now. My legs are barely holding me up. I don't 
know if it's the 
aftermath of the plane journey or love. 



Oh God, just look at him. He's tall and he's handsome, and he 
cancelled a big meeting, 
and he came to rescue me.


 It's love. It has to be love.


 'I'd love to move in with you, Connor,' I whisper, and to my utter 
astonishment, burst into 
tears. 


THREE 

I wake up the next morning with sunlight dazzling my eyelids and 
a delicious smell of 
coffee in the air.

 'Morning!' comes Connor's voice from far above.

 'Morning,' I mumble, without opening my eyes.

 'D'you want some coffee?'

 'Yes please.' 

I turn over and bury my throbbing head in the pillow, trying to 
sink into sleep again for a 

couple of minutes. Which normally I would find very easy. But 
today, something's 
niggling at me. Have I forgotten something? 

As I half listen to Connor clattering around in the kitchen, and the 
tinny background 
sound of the telly, my mind gropes blearily around for clues. It's 
Saturday morning. I'm in 
Connor's bed. We went out for supper – oh God, that awful plane 
ride … he came to the 
airport, and he said … 


We're moving in together! 
I sit up, just as Connor comes in with two mugs and a cafetiere. 
He's dressed in a white 


waffle robe and looks completely gorgeous. I feel a prickle of 
pride, and reach over to 
give him a kiss.


 'Hi,' he says, laughing. 'Careful.' He hands me my coffee. 'How 
are you feeling?'


 'All right.' I push my hair back off my face. 'A bit groggy.'


 'I'm not surprised.' Connor raises his eyebrows. 'Quite a day 
yesterday.'


 'Absolutely.' I nod, and take a sip of coffee. 'So. We're … going to 
live together!'


 'If you're still on for it?'


 'Of course! Of course I am!' I smile brightly. 


And it's true. I am. 
I feel as though overnight, I've turned into a grownup. I'm moving 
in with my boyfriend. 


Finally my life is going the way it should! 
'I'll have to give Andrew notice …' Connor gestures towards the 
wall, on the other side 

of which is his flatmate's room.

 'And I'll have to tell Lissy and Jemima.' 
'And we'll have to find the right place. And you'll have to promise 
to keep it tidy.' He 


gives me a teasing grin. 
'I like that!' I feign outrage. 'You're the one with fifty million CDs.' 
'That's different!' 

'How is it different, may I ask?' I plant my hand on my hip, like 
someone in a sitcom, 


and Connor laughs. 
There's a pause, as though we've both run out of steam, and we 
take a sip of coffee. 


'So anyway,' says Connor after a while, 'I should get going.' 
Connor is attending a course 
on computers this weekend. 'I'm sorry I'll miss your parents,' he 
adds. 


And he really is. I mean, as if he wasn't already the perfect 
boyfriend, he actually enjoys 
visiting my parents.

 'That's OK,' I say benevolently. 'It doesn't matter.' 
'Oh, and I forgot to tell you.' Connor gives me a mysterious grin. 
'Guess what I've got 

tickets for?' 
'Ooh!' I say excitedly. 'Um …' 
I'm about to say 'Paris!' 

'The jazz festival!' Connor beams. 'The Dennisson Quartet! It's 
their last concert of the 


year. Remember we heard them at Ronnie Scott's?' 
For a moment I can't quite speak. 
'Wow!' I manage at last. 'The … Dennisson Quartet! I do 

remember.' 

They played clarinets. On and on and on, for about two hours, 
without even taking a 
breath. 


'I knew you'd be pleased.' Connor touches my arm affectionately, 
and I give him a feeble 
smile.


 'Oh, I am!' 
The thing is, I probably will get to like jazz one day. In fact, I'm 
positive I will.


 I watch fondly as he gets dressed, flosses his teeth and picks up 


his briefcase. 
'You wore my present,' he says with a pleased smile, glancing at 
my discarded underwear 


on the floor.


 'I … often wear them,' I say, crossing my fingers behind my back. 
'They're so gorgeous!' 
'Have a lovely day with your family.' Connor comes over to the 


bed to kiss me, and then 
hesitates. 'Emma?' 
'Yes?' 



He sits down on the bed and gazes seriously at me. Gosh, his 
eyes are so blue. 
'There's something I wanted to say.' He bites his lip. 'You know we 
always speak frankly 

to each other about our relationship.'

 'Er … yes,' I say, feeling a little apprehensive.

 'This is just an idea. You may not like it. I mean … it's completely 
up to you.' 

I gaze at Connor in puzzlement. His face is growing pink, and he 
looks really 
embarrassed. 

Oh my God. Is he going to start getting kinky? Does he want me 
to dress up in outfits 
and stuff? 

I wouldn't mind being a nurse, actually. Or Catwoman from 
Batman . That would be 
cool. I could get some shiny boots …

 'I was thinking that … perhaps … we could …' He stops 
awkwardly.

 'Yes?' I put a supportive hand on his arm.

 'We could …' He stops again.

 'Yes?' 

There's another silence. I almost can't breathe. What does he 
want us to do? What?

 'We could start calling each other "darling",' he says in an 
embarrassed rush. 


 'What?' I say blankly. 
'It's just that …' Connor flushes pinker. 'We're going to be living 
together. It's quite a 
commitment. And I noticed recently, we never seem to use any … 

terms of endearment.' 
I stare at him, feeling caught out. 
'Don't we?' 
'No.' 
'Oh.' I take a sip of coffee. Now I think about it, he's right. We 

don't. Why don't we? 
'So what do you think? Only if you want to.' 


'Absolutely!' I say quickly. 'I mean, you're right. Of course we 
should.' I clear my throat. 
'Darling!' 


'Thanks, darling,' he says, with a loving smile, and I smile back, 
trying to ignore the tiny 
protests inside my head. 
This doesn't feel right. 
I don't feel like a darling. 
Darling is a married person with pearls and a four-wheel-drive.

 'Emma?' Connor's staring at me. 'Is something wrong?' 
'I'm not sure!' I give a self-conscious laugh. 'I just don't know if I 
feel like a "darling". 


But … you know. It may grow on me.' 
'Really? Well, we can use something else. What about "dear"?' 
Dear?Is he serious? 
'No,' I say quickly. 'I think "darling" is better.' 
'Or "sweetheart" … "honey" … "angel" 
'Maybe. Look, can we just leave it?' 

Connor's face falls, and I feel bad. Come on. I can call my 

boyfriend 'darling', for God's 
sake. This is what growing up's all about. I'm just going to have to 
get used to it. 

'Connor, I'm sorry,' I say. 'I don't know what's wrong with me. 
Maybe I'm still a bit tense 
after that flight.' I take his hand. 'Darling.' 


'That's all right, darling.' He smiles back at me, his sunny 
expression restored, and gives 
me a kiss. 'See you later.' 


You see. Easy. 
Oh God. 


Anyway. It doesn't matter. I expect all couples have this kind of 
awkward-ish moment. 
It's probably perfectly normal. 
It takes me about half an hour to get from Connor's place in Maida 


Vale to Islington, 
which is where I live, and as I open the door I find Lissy on the 
sofa. She's surrounded by 


papers and has a frown of concentration on her face. She works 
so hard, Lissy. She really 
overdoes it sometimes. 


'What are you working on?' I say sympathetically. 'Is it that fraud 
case?' 


'No, it's this article,' says Lissy abstractly, and lifts up a glossy 
magazine. 'It says since 
the days of Cleopatra, the proportions of beauty have been the 
same, and there's a way to 
work out how beautiful you are, scientifically. You do all these 
measurements …'


 'Oh right!' I say interestedly. 'So what are you?' 


'I'm just working it out.' She frowns at the page again. 'That 
makes 53 … subtract 20 … 
makes … Oh my God!' She stares at the page in dismay. 'I only 
got 33!'


 'Out of what?'


 'A hundred! 33 out of a hundred!'


 'Oh Lissy. That's crap.' 


'I know,' says Lissy seriously. 'I'm ugly. I knew it. You know, all my 
life I've kind of 
secretly known , but—' 


'No!' I say, trying not to laugh. 'I meant the magazine's crap! You 
can't measure beauty 
with some stupid index. Just look at you!' I gesture at Lissy, who 
has the biggest grey 
eyes in the world, and gorgeous clear pale skin and is frankly 
stunning, even if her last 
haircut was a bit severe. 'I mean, who are you going to believe? 
The mirror or a stupid 



mindless magazine article?'

 'A stupid mindless magazine article,' says Lissy, as though it's 
perfectly obvious. 

I know she's half joking. But ever since her boyfriend Simon 
chucked her, Lissy's had 
really low self-esteem. I'm actually a bit worried about her.

 'Is that the golden proportion of beauty?' says our other flatmate 
Jemima, tapping into the 
room in her kitten heels. She's wearing pale pink jeans and a tight 
white top and as usual, 
she looks perfectly tanned and groomed. In theory, Jemima has a 
job, working in a 
sculpture gallery. But all she ever seems to do is have bits of her 
waxed and plucked and 
massaged, and go on dates with city bankers, whose salary she 
always checks out before 
she says yes. 

I do get on with Jemima. Kind of. It's just that she tends to begin 
all her sentences ' Ifyou 
want a rock on your finger,' and ' Ifyou want an SW3 address,' and 
' Ifyou want to be 
known as a seriously good dinner-party hostess.' 

I mean, I wouldn't mind being known as a seriously good dinnerparty 
hostess. You 
know. It's just not exactly highest on my list of priorities right now. 

Plus, Jemima's idea of being a seriously good dinner-party hostess 
is inviting lots of rich 
friends over, decorating the whole flat with twiggy things, getting 
caterers to cook loads 
of yummy food and telling everyone she made it herself, then 
sending her flatmates (me 
and Lissy) out to the cinema for the night and looking affronted 
when they dare creep 


back in at midnight and make themselves a hot chocolate. 

'I did that quiz,' she says now, picking up her pink Louis Vuitton 
bag. Her dad bought it 
for her as a present when she broke up with a guy after three 
dates. Like she was 
heartbroken.

 Mind you, he had a yacht, so she probably was heart-broken.

 'What did you get?' says Lissy. 

'Eighty-nine.' She spritzes herself with perfume, tosses her long 
blond hair back and 
smiles at herself in the mirror. 'So Emma, is it true you're moving 
in with Connor?' I gape 
at her.

 'How did you know that?'

 'Word on the street. Andrew called Rupes this morning about 
cricket, and he told him.'

 'Are you moving in with Connor?' says Lissy incredulously. 'Why 
didn't you tell me?'

 'I was about to, honestly. Isn't it great?'

 'Bad move, Emma.' Jemima shakes her head. 'Very bad tactics.' 

'Tactics?' says Lissy, rolling her eyes. ' Tactics?Jemima, they're 
having a relationship, not 
playing chess!' 

'A relationship is a game of chess,' retorts Jemima, brushing 
mascara onto her lashes. 
'Mummy says you always have to look ahead. You have to plan 
strategically. If you make 
the wrong move, you've had it.' 


'That's rubbish!' says Lissy defiantly. 'A relationship is about like 
minds. It's about 
soulmates finding each other.' 


'Soulmates!' says Jemima dismissively, and looks at me. 'Just 
remember, Emma, if you 
want a rock on your finger, don't move in with Connor.' 


Her eyes give a swift, Pavlovian glance to the photograph on the 
mantelpiece of her 
meeting Prince William at a charity polo match. 


'Still holding out for Royalty?' says Lissy. 'How much younger is he 
than you, again, 
Jemima?' 


'Don't be stupid!' she snaps, colour tinging her cheeks. 'You're so 
immature sometimes, 
Lissy.'


 'Anyway, I don't want a rock on my finger,' I retort. 


Jemima raises her perfectly arched eyebrows as though to say, 
'you poor, ignorant fool', 
and picks up her bag. 


'Oh,' she suddenly adds, her eyes narrowing. 'Has either of you 
borrowed my Joseph 
jumper?' 


There's a tiny beat of silence.


 'No,' I say innocently.


 'I don't even know which one it is,' says Lissy, with a shrug.


 I can't look at Lissy. I'm sure I saw her wearing it the other night. 



 Jemima's blue eyes are running over me and Lissy like some kind 
of radar scanners. 


'Because I have very slender arms,' she says warningly, 'and I 
really don't want the 
sleeves stretched. And don't think I won't notice, because I will. 
Ciao.' 


The minute she's gone Lissy and I look at each other. 


'Shit,' says Lissy. 'I think I left it at work. Oh well, I'll pick it up on 
Monday.' She shrugs 
and goes back to reading the magazine. 


OK. So the truth is, we do both occasionally borrow Jemima's 
clothes. Without asking. 
But in our defence, she has so many, she hardly ever notices. Plus 
according to Lissy, it's 
a basic human right that flatmates should be able to borrow each 
others' clothes. She says 
it's practically part of the unwritten British constitution. 


'And anyway,' adds Lissy, 'she owes it to me for writing her that 
letter to the council 
about all her parking tickets. You know, she never even said thank 
you.' She looks up 
from an article on Nicole Kidman. 'So what are you doing later on? 
D'you want to see a 
film?'


 'I can't,' I say reluctantly. 'I've got my mum's birthday lunch.' 
'Oh yes, of course.' She pulls a sympathetic face. 'Good luck. I 
hope it's OK.' 
Lissy is the only person in the world who has any idea how I feel 
about visiting home. 


And even she doesn't know it all. 



FOUR 

But as I sit on the train down, I'm resolved that this time will be 
better. I was watching a 
Cindy Blaine show the other day, all about reuniting long-lost 
daughters with their 
mothers, and it was so moving I soon had tears running down my 
face. At the end, Cindy 
gave this little homily about how it's far too easy to take our 
families for granted and that 
they gave us life and we should cherish them. And suddenly I felt 
really chastened.

 So these are my resolutions for today:

 I will not:

 Let my family stress me out.

 Feel jealous of Kerry, or let Nev wind me up.

 Look at my watch, wondering how soon I can leave.

 I will: 

Stay serene and loving and remember that we are all sacred links 
in the eternal circle of 
life.

 (I got that from Cindy Blaine, too.) 

Mum and Dad used to live in Twickenham, which is where I grew 
up. But now they've 
moved out of London to a village in Hampshire. I arrive at their 
house just after twelve, 
to find Mum in the kitchen with my cousin Kerry. She and her 
husband Nev have moved 
out too, to a village about five minutes' drive from Mum and Dad, 
so they see each other 


all the time. 

I feel a familiar pang as I see them, standing side by side by the 
stove. They look more 
like mother and daughter than aunt and niece. They've both got 
the same feather-cut hair 

– although Kerry's is highlighted more strongly than Mum's – 
they're both wearing 
brightly coloured tops which show a lot of tanned cleavage, and 
they're both laughing. 
On the counter, I notice a bottle of white wine already half gone. 
'Happy birthday!' I say, hugging Mum. As I glimpse a wrapped 
parcel on the kitchen 
table, I feel a little thrill of anticipation. I have got Mum the best 
birthday present. I can't 
wait to give it to her! 

'Hi ya!' says Kerry, turning round in her apron. Her blue eyes are 
heavily made-up, and 
round her neck she's wearing a diamond cross which I haven't 
seen before. Every time I 
see Kerry she has a new piece of jewellery. 'Great to see you, 
Emma! We don't see 
enough of you. Do we, Aunty Rachel?' 

'We certainly don't,' says Mum, giving me a hug. 

'Shall I take your coat?' says Kerry, as I put the bottle of 
champagne I've brought into the 
fridge. 'And what about a drink?' 

This is how Kerry always talks to me. As though I'm a visitor.

 But never mind. I'm not going to stress about it. Sacred links in 
the eternal circle of life. 

'It's OK,' I say, trying to sound pleasant. 'I'll get it.' I open the 
cupboard where glasses are 


always kept, to find myself looking at tins of tomatoes. 


'They're over here,' says Kerry, on the other side of the kitchen. 
'We moved everything 
around! It makes much more sense now.' 


'Oh right. Thanks.' I take the glass she gives me and take a sip of 
wine. 'Can I do 
anything to help?' 


'I don't think so …' says Kerry, looking critically around the 
kitchen. 'Everything's pretty 
much done. So I said to Elaine,' she adds to Mum, '"Where did you 
get those shoes?" And 
she said M&S! I couldn't believe it!'


 'Who's Elaine?' I say, trying to join in.


 'At the golf club,' says Kerry. 


Mum never used to play golf. But when she moved to Hampshire, 
she and Kerry took it 
up together. And now all I hear about is golf matches, golf club 
dinners, and endless 
parties with chums from the golf club. 


I did once go along, to see what it was all about. But first of all 
they have all these stupid 
rules about what you can wear, which I didn't know, and some old 
guy nearly had a heart 
attack because I was in jeans. So they had to find me a skirt, and 
a spare pair of those 
clumpy shoes with spikes. And then when we got on to the course 
I couldn't hit the ball. 
Not I couldn't hit the ball well : I literally could not make contact 
with the ball. So in the 
end they all exchanged glances and said I'd better wait in the 
clubhouse. 



'Sorry, Emma, can I just get past you …' Kerry reaches over my 
shoulder for a serving 
dish.


 'Sorry,' I say, and move aside. 'So, is there really nothing I can 
do, Mum?' 


'You could feed Sammy,' she says, giving me a pot of goldfish 
food. She frowns 
anxiously. 'You know, I'm a bit worried about Sammy.' 


'Oh,' I say, feeling a spasm of alarm. 'Er … why?' 


'He just doesn't seem himself .' She peers at him in his bowl. 
'What do you think? Does 
he look right to you?'


 I follow her gaze and pull a thoughtful face, as though I'm 
studying Sammy's features. 


Oh God. I never thought she would notice. I tried as hard as I 
could to get a fish that 
looked just like Sammy. I mean he's orange, he's got two fins, he 
swims around … What's 
the difference?


 'He's probably just a bit depressed,' I say at last. 'He'll get over 
it.' 


Please don't let her take him to the vet or anything, I silently pray. 
I didn't even check if I 
got the right sex. Do goldfishes even have sexes? 


'Anything else I can do?' I say, sprinkling fish food lavishly over 
the water in an attempt 
to block her view of him.


 'We've pretty much got it covered,' says Kerry kindly. 



'Why don't you go and say hello to Dad?' says Mum, sieving some 
peas. 'Lunch won't be 
for another ten minutes or so.' 

I find Dad and Nev in the sitting room, in front of the cricket. 
Dad's greying beard is as 
neatly trimmed as ever, and he's drinking beer from a silver 
tankard. The room has 
recently been redecorated, but on the wall there's still a display of 
all Kerry's swimming 
cups. Mum polishes them regularly, every week.

 Plus my couple of riding rosettes. I think she kind of flicks those 
with a duster.

 'Hi, Dad,' I say, giving him a kiss. 

'Emma!' He puts a hand to his head in mock-surprise. 'You made 
it! No detours! No 
visits to historic cities!'

 'Not today!' I give a little laugh. 'Safe and sound.' 

There was this time, just after Mum and Dad had moved to this 
house, when I took the 
wrong train on the way down and ended up in Salisbury, and Dad 
always teases me about 
it. 

'Hi, Nev.' I peck him on the cheek, trying not to choke on the 
amount of aftershave he's 
wearing. He's in chinos and a white roll-neck, and has a heavy 
gold bracelet round his 
wrist, plus a wedding ring with a diamond set in it. Nev runs his 
family's company, which 
supplies office equipment all round the country, and he met Kerry 
at some convention for 


young entrepreneurs. Apparently they struck up conversation 
admiring each other's Rolex 
watches.

 'Hi, Emma,' he says. 'D'you see the new motor?' 
'What?' I peer at him blankly – then recall a glossy new car on the 
drive when I arrived. 
'Oh yes! Very smart.' 
'Mercedes 5 Series.' He takes a slug of beer. 'Forty-two grand list 

price.' 
'Gosh.' 
'Didn't pay that, though.' He taps the side of his nose. 'Have a 

guess.' 
'Erm … forty?' 
'Guess again.' 
'Thirty-nine?' 

'Thirty-seven-two-fifty,' says Nev triumphantly. 'And free CD 
changer. Tax deductible,' 
he adds.


 'Right. Wow.' 
I don't really know what else to say, so I perch on the side of the 
sofa and eat a peanut.

 'That's what you're aiming for, Emma!' says Dad. 'Think you'll 
ever make it?' 
'I … don't know. Er … Dad, that reminds me. I've got a cheque for 


you.' Awkwardly I 
reach in my bag and get out a cheque for .300. 



'Well done,' says Dad. 'That can go on the tally.' His green eyes 
twinkle as he puts it in 
his pocket. 'It's called learning the value of money. It's called 
learning to stand on your 
own two feet!' 

'Valuable lesson,' says Nev, nodding. He takes a slug of beer and 
grins at Dad. 'Just 
remind me, Emma – what career is it this week?' 

When I first met Nev it was just after I'd left the estate agency to 
become a photographer. 
Two and a half years ago. And he makes this same joke every 
time I see him. Every 
single bloody—

 OK, calm down. Happy thoughts. Cherish your family. Cherish 
Nev.

 'It's still marketing!' I say brightly. 'Has been for over a year now.' 

'Ah. Marketing. Good, good!' 

There's silence for a few minutes, apart from the cricket 
commentary. Suddenly Dad and 
Nev simultaneously groan as something or other happens on the 
cricket pitch. A moment 
later they groan again.

 'Right,' I say. 'Well, I'll just …' 

As I get up from the sofa, they don't even turn their heads. 

I go out to the hall and pick up the cardboard box which I brought 
down with me. Then I 
go through the side gate, knock on the annexe door and push it 
cautiously. 


 'Grandpa?' 

Grandpa is Mum's dad, and he's lived with us ever since he had 
his heart operation, ten 
years ago. At the old house in Twickenham he just had a bedroom, 
but this house is 
bigger, so he has his own annexe of two rooms, and a tiny little 
kitchen, tacked onto the 
side of the house. He's sitting in his favourite leather armchair, 
with the radio playing 
classical music, and on the floor in front of him are about six 
cardboard packing cases 
full of stuff.

 'Hi, Grandpa,' I say. 

'Emma!' He looks up, and his face lights up. 'Darling girl. Come 
here!' I bend over to 
give him a kiss, and he squeezes my hand tight. His skin is dry 
and cool, and his hair is 
even whiter than it was last time I saw him. 

'I've got some more Panther Bars for you,' I say, nodding to my 
box. Grandpa is 
completely addicted to Panther energy bars, and so are all his 
friends at the bowling club, 
so I use my allowance to buy him a boxful for every time I come 
home.

 'Thank you, my love,' Grandpa beams. 'You're a good girl, Emma.'

 'Where should I put them?' 

We both look helplessly around the cluttered room. 

'What about over there, behind the television?' says Grandpa at 
last. I pick my way 
across the room, dump the box on the floor, then retrace my 
steps, trying not to tread on 


anything. 


'Now, Emma, I read a very worrying newspaper article the other 
day,' says Grandpa as I 
sit down on one of the packing cases. 'About safety in London.' He 
gives me a beady 
look. 'You don't travel on public transport in the evenings, do 
you?' 


'Erm … hardly ever,' I say, crossing my fingers behind my back. 
'Just now and then, 
when I absolutely have to …' 


'Darling girl, you mustn't!' says Grandpa, looking agitated. 
'Teenagers in hoods with 
flick-knives roam the underground, it said. Drunken louts, 
breaking bottles, gouging one 
another's eyes out …'


 'It's not that bad—'


 'Emma, it's not worth the risk! For the sake of a taxi fare or two.' 


I'm pretty sure that if I asked Grandpa what he thought the 
average taxi fare was in 


London, he'd say five shillings.


 'Honestly, Grandpa, I'm really careful,' I say reassuringly. 'And I 
do take taxis.'


 Sometimes. About once a year. 


'Anyway. What's all this stuff?' I ask, to change the subject, and 
Grandpa gives a gusty 


sigh. 



'Your mother cleared out the attic last week. I'm just sorting out 
what to throw away and 
what to keep.' 

'That seems like a good idea.' I look at the pile of rubbish on the 
floor. 'Is this stuff you're 
throwing away?' 
'No! I'm keeping all that.' He puts a protective hand over it. 
'So where's the pile of stuff to throw out?' 

There's silence. Grandpa avoids my gaze. 
'Grandpa! You have to throw some of this away!' I exclaim, trying 
not to laugh. 'You 


don't need all these old newspaper cuttings. And what's this?' I 
reach past the newspaper 
cuttings and fish out an old yo-yo. 'This is rubbish, surely.'


 'Jim's yo-yo.' Grandpa reaches for the yo-yo, his eyes softening. 


'Good old Jim.' 
'Who was Jim?' I say, puzzled. I've never even heard of a Jim 
before. 'Was he a good 
friend of yours?' 


'We met at the fairground. Spent the afternoon together. I was 
nine.' Grandpa is turning 
the yo-yo over and over in his fingers. 


'Did you become friends?'


 'Never saw him again.' He shakes his head mistily. 'I've never 
forgotten it.' 
The trouble with Grandpa is, he never forgets anything. 



 'Well, what about some of these cards?' I pull out a bundle of old 
Christmas cards. 


'I never throw away cards.' Grandpa gives me a long look. 'When 
you get to my age; 
when the people you've known and loved all your life start to pass 
away … you want to 
hang onto any memento. However small.' 


'I can understand that,' I say, feeling touched. I reach for the 
nearest card, open it and my 
expression changes. 'Grandpa! This is from Smith's Electrical 
Maintenance, 1965.'


 'Frank Smith was a very good man—' starts Grandpa. 


'No!' I put the card firmly on the floor. 'That's going. And nor do 
you need one from …' I 
open the next card. 'Southwestern Gas Supplies. And you don't 
need twenty old copies of 
Punch .' I deposit them on the pile. 'And what are these?' I reach 
into the box again and 
pull out an envelope of photos. 'Are these actually of anything you 
really want to—'


 Something shoots through my heart and I stop, midstream. 


I'm looking at a photograph of me and Dad and Mum, sitting on a 
bench in a park. 
Mum's wearing a flowery dress, and Dad's wearing a stupid 
sunhat, and I'm on his knee, 
aged about nine, eating an ice-cream. We all look so happy 
together. 


Wordlessly, I turn to another photo. I've got Dad's hat on and 
we're all laughing 
helplessly at something. Just us three. 



 Just us. Before Kerry came into our lives. 

I still remember the day she arrived. A red suitcase in the hall, 
and a new voice in the 
kitchen, and an unfamiliar smell of perfume in the air. I walked in 
and there she was, a 
stranger, drinking a cup of tea. She was wearing school uniform, 
but she still looked like 
a grown-up to me. She already had an enormous bust, and gold 
studs in her ears, and 
streaks in her hair. And at suppertime, Mum and Dad let her have 
a glass of wine. Mum 
kept telling me I had to be very kind to her, because her mother 
had died. We all had to be 
very kind to Kerry. That was why she got my room. 

I leaf through the rest of the pictures, trying to swallow the lump 
in my throat. I 
remember this place now. The park we used to go to, with swings 
and slides. But it was 
too boring for Kerry, and I desperately wanted to be like her, so I 
said it was boring too, 
and we never went again. 

'Knock knock!' I look up with a start, and Kerry's standing at the 
door, holding her glass 
of wine. 'Lunch is ready!'

 'Thanks,' I say. 'We're just coming.' 

'Now, Gramps!' Kerry wags her finger reprovingly at Grandpa, and 
gestures at the 
packing cases. 'Haven't you got anywhere with this lot yet?' 

'It's difficult,' I hear myself saying defensively. 'There are a lot of 
memories in here. You 
can't just throw them out.' 


 'If you say so.' Kerry rolls her eyes. 'If it were me, the whole lot'd 
go in the bin.'

 I cannot cherish her. I cannot do it. I want to throw my treacle tart 
at her. 

We've been sitting round the table now for forty minutes and the 
only voice we've heard 
is Kerry's. 

'It's all about image,' she's saying now. 'It's all about the right 
clothes, the right look, the 
right walk. When I walk along the street, the message I give the 
world is "I am a 
successful woman".'

 'Show us!' says Mum admiringly. 

'Well.' Kerry gives a false-modest smile. 'Like this.' She pushes her 
chair back and wipes 

her mouth with her napkin.

 'You should watch this, Emma,' says Mum. 'Pick up a few tips!' 

As we all watch, Kerry starts striding round the room. Her chin is 
raised, her boobs are 

sticking out, her eyes are fixed on the middle distance, and her 
bottom is jerking from 
side to side. 

She looks like a cross between an ostrich and one of the androids 
in Attack of the Clones 
.

 'I should be in heels, of course,' she says, without stopping. 


'When Kerry goes into a conference hall, I tell you, heads turn,' 
says Nev proudly, and 
takes a sip of wine. 'People stop what they're doing and stare at 
her!'


 I bet they do.


 Oh God. I want to giggle. I mustn't. I mustn't.


 'Do you want to have a go, Emma?' says Kerry. 'Copy me?' 


'Er … I don't think so,' I say. 'I think I probably … picked up the 
basics.' 
Suddenly I give a tiny snort and turn it into a cough. 
'Kerry's trying to help you, Emma!' says Mum. 'You should be 
grateful! You are good to 


Emma, Kerry.'


 She beams fondly at Kerry, who simpers back. And I take a swig 
of wine. 


Yeah, right. Kerry really wants to help me. 


That's why when I was completely desperate for a job and asked 
her for work experience 
at her company, she said no. I wrote her this long, careful letter, 
saying I realized it put 
her in an awkward situation, but I'd really appreciate any chance, 
even a couple of days 
running errands. 


And she sent back a standard rejection letter. 
I was so totally mortified, I never told anyone. Especially not Mum 
and Dad. 



'You should listen to some of Kerry's business tips, Emma,' Dad is 
saying sharply. 
'Maybe if you paid more attention you'd do a bit better in life.' 
'It's only a walk,' quips Nev with a chortle. 'It's not a miracle 
cure!'

 'Nev!' says Mum half reprovingly. 
'Emma knows I'm joking, don't you, Emma?' says Nev easily and 
fills up his glass with 

more wine. 
'Of course!' I say, forcing myself to smile gaily. 
Just wait till I get promoted. 
Just wait. Just wait. 

'Emma! Earth to Emma!' Kerry is waving a comical hand in front 
of my face. 'Wake up, 
Dopey! We're doing presents.' 
'Oh right,' I say, coming to. 'OK. I'll just go and get mine.' 


As Mum opens a camera from Dad and a purse from Grandpa, I 
start to feel excited. I so 

hope Mum likes my present. 
'It doesn't look much,' I say as I hand her the pink envelope. 'But 
you'll see when you 

open it …' 
'What can it be?' Mum says, looking intrigued. She rips open the 
envelope, opens the 

flowered card, and stares at it. 'Oh, Emma!'

 'What is it?' says Dad.

 'It's a day at a spa!' says Mum in delight. 'A whole day of 
pampering.' 

'What a good idea,' says Grandpa, and pats my hand. 'You always 
have good ideas for 

presents, Emma.' 

'Thank you, love. How thoughtful!' Mum leans over to kiss me, 
and I feel a warm glow 
inside. I had the idea a few months ago. It's a really nice day-long 
package, with free 

treatments and everything.

 'You get champagne lunch,' I say eagerly. 'And you can keep the 
slippers!'

 'Wonderful!' says Mum. 'I'll look forward to it. Emma, that's a 
lovely present!' 


'Oh dear,' says Kerry, giving a little laugh. She looks at the large 

creamy envelope in her 
own hands. 'My present's slightly upstaged, I'm afraid. Never 
mind. I'll change it.' 
I look up, alert. There's something about Kerry's voice. I know 
something's up. I just 

know it. 
'What do you mean?' says Mum. 

'It doesn't matter,' says Kerry. 'I'll just … find something else. Not 
to worry.' She starts to 
put the envelope away in her bag.

 'Kerry, love!' says Mum. 'Stop that! Don't be silly. What is it?' 

'Well,' says Kerry. 'It's just that Emma and I seem to have had the 
same idea.' She hands 
Mum the envelope with another little laugh. 'Can you believe it?'

 My whole body stiffens in apprehension. 
No. 
No. She can't have done what I think she's done. 


There's complete silence as Mum opens the envelope. 


'Oh my goodness!' she says, taking out a gold embossed 
brochure. 'What's this? Le Spa 
Meridien?' Something falls out, into her hands, and she stares at 

it. 'Tickets to Paris ? 
Kerry!' 


 She has. She's ruined my present.

 'For both of you,' adds Kerry, a little smugly. 'Uncle Brian, too.'

 'Kerry!' says Dad in delight. 'You marvel!' 

'It is supposed to be rather good,' says Kerry with a complacent 
smile. 'Five-star 
accommodation … the chef has three Michelin stars …' 

'I don't believe this,' says Mum. She's leafing excitedly through 
the brochure. 'Look at 
the swimming pool! Look at the gardens!'

 My flowery card is lying, forgotten, amid the wrapping paper. 

All at once I feel close to tears. She knew. She knew . 

'Kerry, you knew,' I suddenly blurt out, unable to stop myself. 'I 
told you I was giving 
Mum a spa treat. I told you! We had that conversation about it, 
months ago. In the 
garden!'

 'Did we?' says Kerry casually. 'I don't remember.'

 'You do! Of course you remember.'

 'Emma!' says Mum sharply. 'It was a simple mistake. Wasn't it, 
Kerry?' 

'Of course it was!' says Kerry, opening her eyes in wide 
innocence. 'Emma, if I've 
spoiled things for you, I can only apologize—' 

'There's no need to apologize, Kerry love,' says Mum. 'These 
things happen. And they're 


both lovely presents. Both of them.' She looks at my card again. 
'Now, you two girls are 
best friends! I don't like to see you quarrelling. Especially on my 
birthday.' 


Mum smiles at me, and I try to smile back. But inside, I feel about 
ten years old again. 
Kerry always manages to wrong-foot me. She always has done, 
ever since she arrived. 
Whatever she did, everyone took her side. She was the one 
whose mother had died. We 
all had to be nice to her. I could never, ever win. 


Trying to pull myself together, I reach for my wine glass and take 
a huge swig. Then I 
find myself surreptitiously glancing at my watch. I can leave at 
four if I make an excuse 
about trains running late. That's only another hour and a half to 
get through. And maybe 
we'll watch telly or something … 


'A penny for your thoughts, Emma,' says Grandpa, patting my 
hand with a little smile, 


and I look up guiltily.


 'Er … nothing,' I say, and force a smile. 'I wasn't really thinking 
about anything.' 


FIVE 

Anyway. It doesn't matter, because I'm going to get a promotion. 
Then Nev will stop 
making cracks about my career, and I'll be able to pay back Dad. 
Everyone will be really 
impressed – and it'll be fantastic! 


I wake up on Monday morning feeling totally bouncy and positive, 
and get dressed in 



my usual work outfit of jeans and a nice top, this one from French 
Connection. 


Well, not exactly French Connection. To be honest, I bought it at 
Oxfam. But the label 
says French Connection. And while I'm still paying off Dad I don't 
have much choice 
about where I shop. I mean, a new top from French Connection 
costs about fifty quid, 
whereas this one cost .7.50. And it's practically new! 


As I skip up the tube steps, the sun's shining and I'm full of 
optimism. Imagine if I do get 
promoted. Imagine telling everybody. Mum will say, 'How was 
your week?' and I'll say, 
'Well, actually …' 


No, what I'll do is wait until I go home, and then just nonchalantly 
hand over my new 
business card. 


Or maybe I'll just drive up in my company car I think in 
excitement! I mean, I'm not sure 
any of the other marketing executives have cars – but you never 
know, do you? They 
might introduce it as a new thing. Or they might say, 'Emma, 
we've chosen you specially 
—'


 'Emma!' 


I look round to see Katie, my friend from Personnel, climbing the 
tube steps behind me, 
panting slightly. Her curly red hair is all tousled, and she's holding 
one shoe in her hand.


 'What on earth happened?' I say as she reaches the top. 



'My stupid shoe,' says Katie disconsolately. 'I only had it mended 
the other day, and the 
heel's just come off.' She flaps it at me. 'I paid six quid for that 
heel! God, this day is such 
a disaster. The milkman forgot to bring me any milk, and I had a 
terrible weekend …'

 'I thought you were spending it with Charlie,' I say in surprise. 
'What happened?' 

Charlie is Katie's latest man. They've been seeing each other for a 
few weeks and she 
was supposed to be visiting his country cottage, which he's doing 
up at the weekends. 

'It was awful! As soon as we arrived, he said he was going off to 
play golf.' 

'Oh right.' I try to find a positive angle. 'Well, at least he's 
comfortable with you. He can 
just act normally.' 

'Maybe.' She looks at me doubtfully. 'So 'then he said, how did I 
feel about helping out a 
bit while he was gone? So I said of course – and then he gave me 
this paintbrush, and 

three pots of paint and said I should get the sitting room done if I 
worked fast.'

 ' What?' 

'And then he came back at six o'clock – and said my brushwork 
was careless!' Her voice 

rises woefully. 'It wasn't careless! I only smudged one bit, and 
that's because the stupid 
ladder wasn't long enough.' 


 I stare at her.

 'Katie, you're not telling me you actually painted the room.' 

'Well … yes.' She looks at me with huge blue eyes. 'You know, to 
help out. But now I'm 
starting to think … is he just using me?'

 I'm almost speechless with disbelief. 

'Katie, of course he's using you,' I manage at last. 'He wants a 
free painter-decorator! You 
have to chuck him. Immediately. Now!' 

Katie is silent for a few seconds, and I eye her a bit nervously. Her 
face is blank, but I 
can tell lots of things are going on beneath the surface. It's a bit 
like when Jaws 
disappears underneath the rippling water, and you just know that 
any minute— 

'Oh God, you're right!' she suddenly bursts out. 'You're right. He's 
been using me! It's my 
own fault. I should have realized when he asked me if I had any 
experience in plumbing 
or roofing.'

 'When did he ask you that?' I say incredulously. 
'On our first date! I thought he was just, you know, making 
conversation.' 
'Katie, it's not your fault.' I squeeze her arm. 'You weren't to 
know.' 
'But what is it about me?' Katie stops still in the street. 'Why do I 
only attract complete 

shits?' 
'You don't!' 


'I do! Look at the men I've been out with.' She starts counting off 
on her fingers. 'Daniel 
borrowed all that money off me and disappeared to Mexico. Gary 
chucked me as soon as 
I found him a job. David was two-timing me. Do you see a pattern 
emerging?'

 'I … um …' I say helplessly. 'Possibly …' 
'I just think I should give up.' Her face falls. 'I'm never going to 
find anyone nice.' 
'No,' I say at once. 'Don't give up! Katie, I just know your life is 
going to turn around. 

You're going to find some lovely, kind, wonderful man—'

 'But where?' she says hopelessly. 

'I … don't know.' I cross my fingers behind my back. 'But I know 
it'll happen. I've got a 

really strong feeling about it.'

 'Really?' She stares at me. 'You do?' 

'Absolutely!' I think quickly for a moment. 'Look, here's an idea. 
Why don't you try … 

going to have lunch at a different place today. Somewhere 
completely different. And 
maybe you'll meet someone there.'

 'You think?' She gazes at me. 'OK. I'll try it.' 

She gives a gusty sigh, and we start walking along the pavement 
again. 'The only good 
thing about the weekend,' she adds as we reach the corner, 'is I 
finished making my new 
top. What do you think?' 


She proudly takes off her jacket and does a twirl, and I stare at 
her for a few seconds, not 
quite sure what to say.

 It's not that I don't like crochet …

 OK. It is that I don't like crochet. 

Especially pink scoop-neck open-weave crochet tops. You can 
actually see glimpses of 
her bra through it.

 'It's … amazing,' I manage at last. 'Absolutely fantastic!' 

'Isn't it great?' She gives me a pleased smile. 'And it was so quick 
to do! I'm going to 
make the matching skirt next.'

 'That's great,' I say faintly. 'You're so clever.'

 'Oh, it's nothing! I just enjoy it.' 

She smiles modestly, and puts her jacket back on. 'So anyway, 
how about you?' she adds 
as we start to cross the road. 'Did you have a nice weekend? I bet 
you did. I bet Connor 
was completely wonderful and romantic. I bet he took you out for 
dinner or something.'

 'Actually, he asked me to move in with him,' I say awkwardly.

 'Really?' Katie gazes wistfully at me. 'God, Emma, you two make 
the perfect couple. You 
give me faith that it can happen. It all seems so easy for you.' 

I can't help feeling a little flicker of pleasure inside. Me and 
Connor. The perfect couple. 


Role models for other people.

 'It's not that easy,' I say with a modest little laugh. 'I mean, we 
argue, like anyone else.'

 'Do you?' Katie looks surprised. 'I've never seen you argue.'

 'Of course we do!' 

I rack my brain for a moment, trying to remember the last time 
Connor and I had a fight. 

I mean, obviously we do have arguments. Loads of them. All 
couples do. It's only 
healthy.

 Come on, this is silly. We must have— 

Yes. There was that time by the river when I thought those big 
white birds were geese 
and Connor thought they were swans. Exactly. We're normal. I 
knew it. 

We're nearing the Panther building now, and as we walk up the 
pale stone steps, each 
with a granite panther jumping across it, I start feeling a bit 
nervous. Paul will want a full 
report on how the meeting went with Glen Oil. 

What shall I say? 

Well, obviously I'll be completely frank and honest. Without 
actually telling him the 
truth— 

'Hey, look.' Katie's voice interrupts me and I follow her gaze. 
Through the glass front of 


the building I can see a commotion in the foyer. This isn't normal. 
What's going on?

 God, has there been a fire, or something? 

As Katie and I push our way through the heavy revolving glass 
doors, we look at each 
other in bewilderment. The whole place is in turmoil. People are 
scurrying about, 
someone's polishing the brass banister, someone else is polishing 
the fake plants, and 
Cyril, the senior office manager, is shooing people into lifts. 


'Could you please go to your offices! We don't want you hanging 
around the reception 
area. You should all be at your desks by now.' He sounds 
completely stressed out. 'There's 
nothing to see down here! Please go to your desks.' 

'What's happening?' I say to Dave the security guard, who's 
lounging against the wall 
with a cup of tea as usual. He takes a sip, swills it around his 
mouth and gives us a grin.

 'Jack Harper's visiting.

 ' What?' We both gawp at him.

 'Today?'

 'Are you serious ?' 

In the world of the Panther Corporation, this is like saying the 
Pope's visiting. Or Father 
Christmas. Jack Harper is the joint founder of the Panther 
Corporation. He invented 
Panther Cola. I know this because I've typed out blurbs about him 
approximately a 
million times. 'It was 1987 when young, dynamic business 
partners Jack Harper and Pete 
Laidler bought up the ailing Zoot soft-drinks company, 
repackaged Zootacola as Panther 
Cola, invented the slogan "Don't Pause", and thus made 
marketing history.'

 No wonder Cyril's in a tizz. 
'In about five minutes.' Dave consults his watch. 'Give or take.' 
'But … but how come?' says Katie. 'I mean, just out of the blue 
like this.' 
Dave's eyes twinkle. He's obviously been telling people the news 
all morning and is 


thoroughly enjoying himself.

 'He wants to have a look round the UK operation, apparently.' 

'I thought he wasn't active in the business any more,' says Jane 
from Accounts, who's 

come up behind us in her coat and is listening, agog. 'I thought 
ever since Pete Laidler 
died he was all grief-stricken and reclusive. On his ranch, or 
whatever it is.'

 'That was three years ago,' points out Katie. 'Maybe he's feeling 
better.'

 'Maybe he wants to sell us off, more like,' says Jane darkly.

 'Why would he do that?'

 'You never know.' 

'My theory,' says Dave, and we all bend our heads to listen, 'is he 
wants to see if the 
plants are shiny enough.' He nods his head towards Cyril, and we 
all giggle.

 'Be careful,' Cyril is snapping. 'Don't damage the stems.' He 
glances up. 'What are you all 
still doing there?' 


'Just going!' says Katie, and we head towards the stairs, which I 
always use because it 
means I don't have to bother with the gym. Plus luckily Marketing 
is on the first floor. 
We've just reached the landing when Jane squeaks 'Look! Oh my 
God! It's him!' 


A limousine has purred up the street and stopped right in front of 
the glass doors. 


What is it about some cars? They look so gleaming and burnished, 
as if they're made out 
of a completely different metal from normal cars. 


As if by clockwork, the lift doors at the other end of the foyer 
open, and out strides 
Graham Hillingdon, the chief executive, plus the managing 
director and about six others, 
all looking immaculate in dark suits.


 'That's enough!' Cyril is hissing at the poor cleaners in the foyer. 
'Go! Leave it!' 


The three of us stand, goggling like children, as the passenger 
door of the limousine 
opens. A moment later, out gets a man with blond hair in a navy 
blue overcoat. He's 
wearing dark glasses and is holding a very expensive-looking 
briefcase. 


Wow. He looks like a million dollars. 


Graham Hillingdon and the others are all outside by now, lined up 
on the steps. They 
shake his hand in turn, then usher him inside, where Cyril is 
waiting. 



'Welcome to the Panther Corporation UK,' Cyril says fulsomely. 'I 
hope your journey 
was pleasant?'


 'Not too bad, thanks,' says the man, in an American accent.


 'As you can see, this is very much a normal working day …'


 'Hey look,' murmurs Katie. 'Kenny's stuck outside the doors.' 


Kenny Davey, one of the designers, is hovering uncertainly on the 
steps outside in his 
jeans and baseball boots, not knowing whether to come in or not. 
He puts a hand to the 
door, then retreats a little, then comes up to the door again and 
peers uncertainly inside. 


'Come in, Kenny!' says Cyril, opening the door with a rather 
savage smile. 'One of our 
designers, Kenny Davey. You should have been here ten minutes 
ago, Kenny. Still, never 
mind!' He pushes a bewildered Kenny towards the lifts, then 
glances up and shoos us 


away in irritation. 


'Come on,' says Katie, 'we'd better go.' And, trying not to giggle, 
the three of us hurry up 
the stairs. 


The atmosphere in the marketing department is a bit like my 
bedroom used to be before 
we had parties in the sixth form. People are brushing their hair, 
spraying perfume, 
shuffling papers around and gossiping excitedly. As I walk past the 
office of Neil Gregg, 
who is in charge of media strategy, I see him carefully lining up 
his Marketing 



Effectiveness awards on his desk, while Fiona his assistant is 
polishing the framed 
photographs of him shaking hands with famous people. 


I'm just hanging up my coat on the rack when the head of our 
department, Paul, pulls me 
aside. 


'What the fuck happened at Glen Oil? I had a very strange email 
from Doug Hamilton 
this morning. You poured a drink over him?'


 I stare at him in shock. Doug Hamilton told Paul? But he promised 
he wouldn't! 


'It wasn't like that,' I say quickly. 'I was just trying to demonstrate 
the many fine qualities 
of Panther Prime and I … I kind of spilled it.' Paul raises his 
eyebrows, not in a friendly 
way.


 'All right. It was a lot to ask of you.' 


'It wasn't,' I say quickly. 'I mean, it would have been fine, if … 
what I mean is, if you 
give me another chance, I'll do better. I promise.'


 'We'll see.' He looks at his watch. 'You'd better get on. Your desk 
is a fucking mess.'


 'OK. Um, what time will my appraisal be?' 


'Emma, in case you hadn't heard, Jack Harper's visiting us today,' 
says Paul, in his most 
sarcastic voice. 'But of course, if you think your appraisal's more 
important than the guy 
who founded the company—'


 'I didn't mean … I just …' 



'Go and tidy your desk,' says Paul in a bored voice. 'And if you 
spill fucking Panther 
Prime over Harper, you're fired.' 


As I scuttle to my desk, Cyril comes into the room, looking 
hassled. 


'Attention!' he says, clapping his hands. 'Attention everyone! This 
is an informal visit, 
nothing more. Mr Harper will come in, perhaps talk to one or two 
of you, observe what 


you do. So I want you all just to act normally, but obviously, at 
your highest standards … 
What are these papers?' he suddenly snaps, looking at a neat pile 
of proofs in the corner 
next to Fergus Grady's desk. 


'That's the … um … artwork for the new Panther Gum campaign,' 
says Fergus, who is 
very shy and creative. 'I haven't quite got room on my desk.' 


'Well, they can't stay here!' Cyril picks them up and shoves them 
at him. 'Get rid of them. 
Now, if he asks any of you a question, just be pleasant and 
natural. When he arrives, I 
want you all at work. Just doing typical tasks which you would 
naturally be doing in the 
course of a normal day.' He looks around distractedly. 'Some of 
you could be on the 
phone, some could be typing at your computers … a couple of 
you could be creatively 
brainstorming … Remember, this department is the hub of the 
company. The Panther 
Corporation is renowned for its marketing brilliance!'


 He stops and we all stare dumbly at him. 



'Get on!' He claps his hands again. 'Don't just stand there. You!' 
He points to me. 'Come 
on. Move!' 


Oh, God. My desk is completely covered with stuff. I open a 
drawer and sweep a whole 
load of papers inside, then in slight panic, begin to tidy the pens 
in my stationery pot. At 
the next desk, Artemis Harrison is redoing her lipstick. 


'It'll be really inspirational to meet him,' she says, admiring 
herself in her hand mirror. 
'You know, a lot of people think he single-handedly changed the 
face of marketing 
practice.' Her eyes fall on me. 'Is that a new top, Emma? Where's 
it from?'


 'Er, French Connection,' I say after a pause. 


'I was in French Connection at the weekend.' Her eyes are 
narrowing. 'I didn't see that 
design.' 


'Well, they'd probably sold out.' I turn away and pretend to be 
reorganizing my top 
drawer.


 'What do we call him?' Caroline is saying. 'Mr Harper or Jack?' 


'Five minutes alone with him,' Nick, one of the marketing 
executives, is saying 
feverishly into his phone. 'That's all I need. Five minutes to pitch 
him the website idea. I 
mean, Jesus, if he went for it—' 


God, the air of excitement is infectious. With a spurt of adrenalin, I 
find myself reaching 
for my comb and checking my lip-gloss. I mean, you never know. 
Maybe he'll somehow 



spot my potential. Maybe he'll pull me out of the crowd! 


'OK, folks,' says Paul, striding into the department. 'He's on this 
floor. He's going into 
Admin first …'


 'On with your everyday tasks!' exclaims Cyril. 'Now!'


 Fuck. What's my everyday task?


 I pick up my phone and press my voice-mail code. I can be 
listening to my messages.


 I look around the department – and see that everyone else has 
done the same thing. 


We can't all be on the phone. This is so stupid! OK, I'll just switch 
on my computer and 
wait for it to warm up. 


As I watch the screen changing colour, Artemis starts talking in a 
loud voice. 


'I think the whole essence of the concept is vitality ,' she says, her 
eye constantly flicking 
towards the door. 'D'you see what I mean?' 


'Er, yes,' says Nick. 'I mean, in a modern marketing environment, I 
think we need to be 
looking at a … um … fusion of strategy and forward-thinking 
vision …' 


God, my computer's slow today. Jack Harper will arrive and I'll still 
be staring at it like a 
moron. 


I know what I'll do. I'll be the person getting a coffee. I mean, 
what could be more 
natural than that? 



 'I think I'll get a coffee,' I say self-consciously, and get up from 
my seat. 


'Could you get me one?' says Artemis, looking up briefly. 'So 
anyway, on my MBA 
course …' 


The coffee machine is near the entrance to the department, in its 
own little alcove. As I'm 
waiting for the noxious liquid to fill my cup, I glance up, and see 
Graham Hillingdon 
walking out of the admin department, followed by a couple of 
others. Shit! He's coming!


 OK. Keep cool. Just wait for the second cup to fill, nice and 
natural … 


And there he is! With his blond hair and his expensive-looking 
suit, and his dark glasses. 
But to my slight surprise, he steps back, out of the way. 


In fact, no-one's even looking at him. Everyone's attention is 
focused on some other guy. 
A guy in jeans and a black turtleneck who's walking out now. 


As I stare in fascination, he turns. And as I see his face I feel an 
almighty thud, as though 


a bowling ball's landed hard in my chest.


 Oh my God.


 It's him. 


The same dark eyes. The same lines etched around them. The 
stubble's gone, but it's 


definitely him. 



 It's the man from the plane. 
What's he doing here? 
And why is everyone's attention on him? He's speaking now, and 


they're lapping up 
every word he says. 


He turns again, and I instinctively duck back out of sight, trying to 
keep calm. What's he 
doing here? He can't— 
That can't be— 
That can't possibly be— 
With wobbly legs, I walk back to my desk, trying not to drop the 


coffee on the floor. 


'Hey,' I say to Artemis, my voice pitched slightly too high. 'Erm … 
do you know what 
Jack Harper looks like?'


 'No,' she says, and takes her coffee. 'Thanks.' 
'Dark hair,' says someone. 
'Dark?' I swallow. 'Not blond?' 
'He's coming this way!' hisses someone. 'He's coming!' 


With weak legs I sink into my chair and sip my coffee, not tasting 
it. 
'… our head of marketing and promotion, Paul Fletcher,' I can 
hear Graham saying. 


 'Good to meet you, Paul,' comes the same dry, American voice.

 It's him. It's definitely him. 

OK, keep calm. Maybe he won't remember me. It was one short 
flight. He probably 

takes a lot of flights. 

'Everyone.' Paul is leading him into the centre of the office. 'I'm 
delighted to introduce 
our founding father, the man who has influenced and inspired a 
generation of marketeers 

– Jack Harper!' 
A round of applause breaks out, and Jack Harper shakes his head, 
smiling. 'Please,' he 
says. 'No fuss. Just do what you would normally do.' 
He starts to walk around the office, pausing now and then to talk 
to people. Paul is 
leading the way, making all the introductions, and following them 
silently everywhere is 
the blond man. 
'Here he comes!' Artemis hisses, and everyone at our end of the 
office stiffens. 


My heart starts to thump, and I shrink into my chair, trying to hide 
behind my computer. 


Maybe he won't recognize me. Maybe he won't remember. Maybe 
he won't— 
Fuck. He's looking at me. I see the flash of surprise in his eyes, 
and he raises his 


eyebrows.


 He recognizes me. 



 Please don't come over, I silently pray. Please don't come over.

 'And who's this?' he says to Paul.

 'This is Emma Corrigan, one of our junior marketing assistants.' 

He's walking towards me. Artemis has stopped talking. Everyone's 
staring. I'm hot with 


embarrassment.


 'Hello,' he says pleasantly.


 'Hello,' I manage. 'Mr Harper.' 


OK, so he recognizes me. But that doesn't necessarily mean he 
remembers anything I 


said. A few random comments thrown out by a person in the nextdoor 
seat. Who's going 
to remember that? Maybe he wasn't even listening . 
'And what do you do?' 
'I, um, assist the marketing department and I help with setting up 
promotional initiatives,' 
I mumble. 
'Emma was in Glasgow only last week on business,' puts in Paul, 
giving me a completely 
phoney smile. 'We believe in giving our junior staff responsibility 
as early as possible.' 


'Very wise,' says Jack Harper, nodding. His gaze runs over my 
desk and alights with 
sudden interest on my polystyrene cup. He looks up and meets 
my eye. 'How's the 
coffee?' he asks pleasantly. 'Tasty?'


 Like a tape recording in my head, I suddenly hear my own stupid 
voice, prattling on. 



' The coffee at work is the most disgusting stuff you've ever 
drunk, absolute poison…' 
'It's great!' I say. 'Really … delicious!' 
'I'm very glad to hear it.' There's a spark of amusement in his 
eyes, and I feel myself 

redden.

 He remembers. Fuck. He remembers. 

'And this is Artemis Harrison,' says Paul. 'One of our brightest 
young marketing 
executives.' 

'Artemis,' says Jack Harper thoughtfully. He takes a few steps 
towards her work station. 

'That's a nice big desk you've got there, Artemis.' He smiles at 
her. 'Is it new?'

 '… this new desk arrived the other day, and she just took it …'

 He remembers everything, doesn't he? Everything.

 Oh God. What the fuck else did I say? 

I'm sitting perfectly still, while Artemis makes some showy-off 
reply, with my pleasant, 
good-employee expression. But my mind is frantically spooling 
back, trying to 
remember, trying to piece together what I said. I mean, God, I told 
this man everything 
about myself. Everything . I told him what sort of knickers I wear, 
and what flavour icecream 
I like, and how I lost my virginity, and— 


 My blood runs cold.

 I'm remembering something I should not have told him.

 Something I should not have told anyone.

 '… I know I shouldn't have done it, but I so wanted to get the job 
…'


 I told him about faking the A grade on my CV. 


Well, that's it. I'm dead. 


He'll fire me. I'll get a record for being dishonest and no-one will 
ever employ me again, 
and I'll end up on a 'Britain's Worst Jobs' documentary, clearing up 
cow poo, saying 
brightly 'It's not too bad, really.' 


OK. Don't panic. There must be something I can do. I'll apologize. 
Yes. I'll say it was an 
error of judgement which I now deeply regret, and I never meant 
to mislead the company, 
and— 


No. I'll say, 'Actually, I did get an A grade, haha, silly me I forgot!' 
And then I'll forge a 
GCSE certificate with one of those calligraphy kits. I mean, he's 
American. He'll never 
know.


 No. He's bound to find out. Oh God. Oh God. 


OK, maybe I'm over-reacting here. Let's just get things in 
proportion. Jack Harper is a 
huge important guy. Look at him! He's got limos and flunkies, and 
a huge great company 
which makes millions every year. He doesn't care if one of his 
employees got a poxy A 



grade or not. I mean, honestly!

 I laugh out loud in my nerves, and Artemis gives me an odd look. 

'I'd just like to say that I'm very glad to meet you all,' says Jack 
Harper, looking around 
the silent office. 'And also introduce my assistant Sven Petersen.' 
He gestures to the guy 
with blond hair. 'I'll be staying here for a few days so I hope I'll get 
to know a few of you 
better. As you're aware, Pete Laidler, who founded the Panther 
Corporation with me, was 
British. For that reason, among many others, this country has 
always been immensely 
important to me.' 


A sympathetic murmur goes around the office. He lifts a hand, 
nods, and walks away, 
followed by Sven and all the executives. There's silence until he's 
gone, then an excited 
babble breaks out.


 I feel my whole body sag in relief. Thank God. Thank God . 


Honestly, I'm such a moron. Fancy thinking even for a moment 
that Jack Harper would 
remember what I said. Let alone care about it! Fancy thinking he 
would take time out of 
his busy, important schedule, for something as tiny and 
insignificant as whether I faked 
my CV or not! As I reach for my mouse and click on a new 
document, I'm actually 
smiling. 


'Emma.' I look up to see Paul standing over my desk. 'Jack Harper 
would like to see you,' 
he says curtly.


 'What?' My smile fades away. 'Me?' 



 'The meeting room in five minutes.' 


'Did he say why?' 
'No.' 
Paul strides off, and I gaze unseeingly at my computer screen, 
feeling sick. 
I was right first time. 
I'm going to lose my job. 
I'm going to lose my job because of one stupid comment on one 
stupid plane ride. 
Whydid I have to get upgraded? Why did I have to open my stupid 
mouth? I'm just a 


stupid, stupid blabbermouth. 
'Why does Jack Harper want to see you?' says Artemis, sounding 
put out. 
'I don't know,' I say. 
'Is he seeing anyone else?' 
'I don't know!' I say distractedly. 
To stop her asking any more questions, I start typing drivel into 
my computer, my mind 


whirring round and round. 
I can't lose this job. I can't ruin yet another career. 
He can't fire me. He just can't. It's not fair. I didn't know who he 
was. I mean, obviously, 


if he'd told me he was my employer, I would never have 
mentioned my CV. Or … any of 


it. 
And anyway, it's not as if I faked my degree , is it? It's not as if 
I've got a criminal record 



or something. I'm a good employee. I try really hard and I don't 
skive off that often, and I 
put in all that overtime with the sportswear promotion, and I 
organized the Christmas 
raffle …


 I'm typing harder and harder, and my face is growing red with 
agitation. 
'Emma.' Paul is looking meaningfully at his watch. 
'Right.' I take a deep breath and stand up. 
I'm not going to let him fire me. I'm just not going to let it happen. 


I stride across the office and down the corridor to the meeting 
room, knock on the door 
and push it open. 


Jack Harper is sitting on a chair at the conference table, scribbling 
something in a 
notebook. As I come in, he looks up, and the grave expression on 
his face makes my 
stomach turn over.


 But I have to defend myself. I have to keep this job. 


'Hi,' he says. 'Can you close the door?' He waits until I've done so, 
then looks up. 'Emma, 
we need to talk about something.' 


'I'm aware that we do,' I say, trying to keep my voice steady. 'But 
I'd like to say my part 


first, if I may.'


 For a moment Jack Harper looks taken aback – then he raises his 
eyebrows.


 'Sure. Go ahead.' 



 I walk into the room, take a deep breath and look him straight in 
the eye. 


'Mr Harper, I know what you want to see me about. I know it was 
wrong. It was an error 
of judgement which I deeply regret. I'm extremely sorry, and it 
will never happen again. 
But in my defence …' I can hear my voice rising in emotion. 'In my 
defence, I had no 
idea who you were on that plane ride. And I don't believe I should 
be penalized for what 
was an honest genuine mistake.' 


There's a pause. 
'You think I'm penalizing you?' says Jack Harper at last, with a 
frown. 
How can he be so callous? 
'Yes! You must realize I would never have mentioned my CV if I'd 
known who you 


were! It was like a … a honeytrap! You know, if this was a court 
the judge would throw it 
out. They wouldn't even let you—' 


'Your CV?' Jack Harper's brow clears. 'Ah! The A grade on your 
resume.' He gives me a 
penetrating look. 'The falsified A grade, I should say.'


 Hearing it out loud like that silences me. I can feel my face 
growing hotter and hotter. 


'You know, a lot of people would call that fraud,' says Jack Harper, 
leaning back in his 
chair. 


'I know they would. I know it was wrong. I shouldn't have … But it 
doesn't affect the way I do my job. It doesn't mean anything.' 



'You think?' He shakes his head thoughtfully. 'I don't know. Going 

from a C grade to an A 
grade … that's quite a jump. What if we need you to do some 
math?'

 'I can do maths,' I say desperately. 'Ask me a maths question. Go 
on, ask me anything.'

 'OK.' His mouth is twitching. 'Eight nines.' 
I stare at him, my heart racing, my mind blank. Eight nines. I've 
got no idea. Fuck. OK, 

once nine is nine. Two nines are— 
No. I've got it. Eight tens are 80. So eight nines must be— 

'Seventy-two!' I cry, and flinch as he gives a tiny half-smile. 'It's 
seventy-two,' I add 
more calmly. 

'Very good.' He gestures politely to a chair. 'Now. Have you 
finished what you wanted to 
say or is there more?' 
I rub my face confusedly. 'You're … not going to fire me?' 
'No,' says Jack Harper patiently. 'I'm not going to fire you. Now 
can we talk?' 
As I sit down, a horrible suspicion starts growing in my mind. 
'Was …' I clear my throat. 'Was my CV what you wanted to see 
me about?' 
'No,' he says mildly. 'That wasn't what I wanted to see you about.' 


 I want to die.

 I want to die right here, right now. 

'Right.' I smooth back my hair, trying to compose myself; trying to 
look businesslike. 


'Right. Well. So er, what did you … what …'


 'I have a small favour to ask you.'


 'Right!' I feel a thud of anticipation. 'Anything! I mean … what is 
it?' 


'For various reasons,' says Jack Harper slowly, 'I would prefer it 
that nobody knows I 


was in Scotland last week.' He meets my eyes. 'So I would like it 
very much if we could 
keep our little meeting between ourselves.'


 'Right!' I say after a pause. 'Of course! Absolutely. I can do that.' 


'You haven't told anyone?' 
'No. No-one. Not even my … I mean, no-one. I haven't told 
anyone.' 
'Good. Thank you very much, I appreciate it.' He smiles, and gets 
up from his chair. 


'Nice to meet you again, Emma. I'm sure I'll see you again.'


 'That's it?' I say, taken aback.


 'That's it. Unless you had anything else you wanted to discuss.' 



 'No!' I get to my feet hurriedly, banging my ankle on the table 
leg. 

I mean, what did I think? That he was going to ask me to head up 
his exciting new 

international project? 
Jack Harper opens the door, and holds it politely for me. And I'm 
halfway out when I 

stop. 'Wait.'

 'What is it?' 

'What shall I say you wanted to talk to me about?' I say 
awkwardly. 'Everyone's going to 

ask me.'

 'Why not say we were discussing logistics?' He raises his 
eyebrows and closes the door. 

SIX 

For the rest of the day there's a kind of festive atmosphere at 
work. But I just sit there, 
unable to believe what just happened. And as I travel home that 
evening, my heart is still 
pounding at the unlikeliness of it all. At the injustice of it all. 


He was a stranger. He was supposed to be a stranger . The whole 
point about strangers 
is, they disappear into the ether, never to be seen again. Not turn 
up at the office. Not ask 
you what eight nines are. Not turn out to be your mega-boss 
employer. 


Well, all I can say is, that's taught me. My parents always said 
never talk to strangers, 
and they were right. I'm never telling a stranger anything again. 
Ever . 


I've arranged to go to Connor's flat in the evening, and when I 
arrive I feel my body 
expand in relief. Away from the office. Away from all the endless 
Jack Harper talk. And 
Connor's already cooking. I mean, how perfect is that? The 
kitchen is full of a wonderful 
garlicky-herby smell, and there's a glass of wine already waiting 
for me on the table.


 'Hi!' I say, and give him a kiss. 


'Hi, darling!' he says, looking up from the stove. 
Shit. I totally forgot to say Darling. OK, how am I going to 
remember this? 
I know. I'll write it on my hand. 
'Have a look at those. I downloaded them from the Internet.' 
Connor gestures to a folder 


on the table with a wide smile. I open it, and find myself looking 
at a grainy black and 
white picture of a room with a sofa and a pot plant.


 'Flat details!' I say, taken aback. 'Wow. That's quick. I haven't 
even given notice yet.' 



'Well, we need to start looking,' says Connor. 'Look, that one's got 
a balcony. And there's 
one with a working fireplace!'


 'Gosh!' 


I sit down on a nearby chair and peer at the blurry photograph, 
trying to imagine me and 
Connor living in it together. Sitting on that sofa. Just the two of us, 
every single evening.


 I wonder what we'll talk about. 


Well! We'll talk about … whatever we always talk about.


 Maybe we'll play Monopoly. Just if we get bored or anything.


 I turn to another sheet and feel a pang of excitement.


 This flat has wooden floors and shutters! I've always wanted 
wooden floors and shutters. 
And look at that cool kitchen, with all granite worktops …


 Oh, this is going to be so great. I can't wait! 


I take a happy slug of wine, and am just sinking comfortably back 
when Connor says, 
'So! Isn't it exciting about Jack Harper coming over.' 



 Oh God. Please. Not more talk about bloody Jack Harper. 

'Did you get to meet him?' he adds, coming over with a bowl of 
peanuts. 'I heard he went 
into Marketing.'

 'Um, yes, I met him.'

 'He came into Research this afternoon, but I was at a meeting.' 
Connor looks at me, agog. 
'So what's he like?' 

'He's … I don't know. Dark hair … American … So how did the 
meeting go?'

 Connor totally ignores my attempt to change the subject.

 'Isn't it exciting, though?' His face is glowing. 'Jack Harper!'

 'I suppose so.' I shrug. 'Anyway—' 

'Emma! Aren't you excited?' Connor looks astonished. 'We're 
talking about the founder 
of the company! We're talking about the man who came up with 
the concept of Panther 
Cola. Who took an unknown brand, repackaged it and sold it to 
the world! He turned a 
failing company into a huge, successful corporation. And now 
we're all getting to meet 
him. Don't you find that thrilling?'

 'Yes,' I say at last. 'It's … thrilling.' 


'This could be the opportunity of a lifetime for all of us. To learn 
from the genius 
himself! You know, he's never written a book, he's never shared 
his thoughts with anyone 
except Pete Laidler …' He reaches into the fridge for a can of 
Panther Cola and cracks it 
open. Connor has to be the most loyal employee in the world. I 
once bought a Pepsi when 
we were out on a picnic, and he nearly had a hernia. 

'You know what I would love above anything?' he says, taking a 
gulp. 'A one-to-one with 
him.' He looks at me, his eyes shining. 'A one-to-one with Jack 
Harper! Wouldn't that be 
the most fantastic career boost?' 

A one-to-one with Jack Harper. 

Yup, that boosted my career great.

 'I suppose,' I say reluctantly. 

'Of course it would be! Just having the chance to listen to him. To 
hear what he has to 
say! I mean, the guy's been shut away for three years. What ideas 
must he have been 
generating all this time? He must have so many insights and 
theories, not just about 
marketing, but about business … about the way people work … 
about life itself.' 

Connor's enthusiastic voice is like salt rubbing into my sore skin. 
So, let's just see quite 
how spectacularly I have played this wrong, shall we? I'm sitting 
on a plane next to the 
great Jack Harper, creative genius and source of all wisdom on 
business and marketing, 
not to mention the great mysteries of life itself. 


And what do I do? Do I ask him insightful questions? Do I engage 
him in intelligent 
conversation? Do I learn anything from him at all? 

No. I blabber on about what kind of underwear I prefer.

 Great career move, Emma. One of the best. 

The next day, Connor is off to a meeting first thing, but before he 
goes he digs out an old 
magazine article about Jack Harper.

 'Read this,' he says, through a mouthful of toast. 'It's good 
background information.' 

I don't want any background information! I feel like retorting, but 
Connor's already out 
of the door. 

I'm tempted to leave it behind and not even bother looking at it, 
but it's quite a long 
journey from Connor's place to work, and I haven't got any 
magazines with me. So I take 
the article with me, and grudgingly start reading it on the tube, 
and I suppose it is quite an 
interesting story. How Harper and Pete Laidler were friends, and 
they decided to go into 
business, and Jack was the creative one and Pete was the 
extrovert playboy one, and they 
became multimillionaires together, and they were so close they 
were practically like 
brothers. And then Pete was killed in a car crash. And Jack was so 
devastated he shut 
himself away from the world and said he was giving it all up. 

And of course now I read all this I'm starting to feel a bit stupid. I 
should have 
recognized Jack Harper. I mean, I certainly recognize Pete Laidler. 
For one thing he looks 


– looked – just like Robert Redford. And for another, he was all 
over the papers when he 
died. I can remember it vividly now, even though I had nothing to 
do with the Panther 
Corporation then. He crashed his Mercedes, and everyone said it 
was just like Princess 
Diana. 
I'm so busy reading, I nearly miss my stop and have to make one 
of those stupid dashes 
for the doors, where everyone looks at you like: You complete 
moron, did you not know 
that your stop was coming up? And then, as the doors close, I 
realize I've left the article 
behind on the tube. 
Oh well. I'd kind of got the gist of it. 

It's a bright sunshiny morning, and I head towards the juice bar 
where I usually pop in 
before work. I've got into the habit of picking up a mango 
smoothie every morning, 
because it's healthy. 

And also because there is a very cute New Zealand guy who 
works behind the counter, 
called Aidan. (In fact, I had a miniature crush on him, before I 
started going out with 
Connor.) When he isn't working in the smoothie bar he's doing a 
course on sports science, 
and he's always telling me stuff about essential minerals, and 
what your carb-ratio should 
be.

 'Hiya,' he says as I come in. 'How's the kick-boxing going?' 

'Oh!' I say, colouring slightly. 'It's great, thanks.' 
'Did you try that new manoeuvre I told you about?' 
'Yes! It really helped!' 


'I thought it would,' he says, looking pleased, and goes off to 
make my mango smoothie. 
OK. So the truth is, I don't really do kick-boxing. I did try it once, 
at our local leisure 


centre, and to be honest, I was shocked! I had no idea it would be 
so violent . But Aidan 
was so enthused about it, and kept saying how it would transform 
my life, I couldn't bring 
myself to admit I'd given up after only one session. It just seemed 
so lame. So I kind of 
… fibbed. And I mean, it's not like it matters. He'll never know. It's 
not as if I ever see 
him outside the smoothie bar.


 'That's one mango smoothie,' says Aidan. 


'And a chocolate brownie,' I say. 'For … my colleague.' Aidan picks 
up the brownie and 
pops it in a bag. 


'You know, that colleague of yours needs to think about her 
refined sugar levels,' he says 


with a concerned frown. 'That must be – four brownies this week?'


 'I know,' I say earnestly. 'I'll tell her. Thanks, Aidan.'


 'No problem!' says Aidan. 'And remember: one-two-swivel!'


 'One-two-swivel,' I repeat brightly. 'I'll remember!'


 As I arrive at the office, Paul appears out of his room, snaps his 
fingers at me and says, 


'Appraisal.' 



My stomach gives an almighty lurch, and I nearly choke on my 
last bite of chocolate 
brownie'. Oh God. This is it. I'm not ready. 

Yes I am. Come on. Exude confidence. I am a woman on her way 
somewhere. 

Suddenly I remember Kerry and her 'I am a successful woman' 
walk. I know Kerry's an 
obnoxious cow, but she does have her own travel agency and 
make zillions of pounds a 
year. She must be doing something right. Maybe I should give it a 
go. Cautiously I stick 
out my bust, lift my head and start striding across the office with 
a fixed, alert expression 
on my face.

 'Have you got period pain or something?' says Paul crudely as I 
reach his door. 

'No!' I say in shock. 

'Well you look very odd. Now sit down.' He shuts the door, sits 
down at his desk and 
opens a form marked Staff Appraisal Review. 'I'm sorry I couldn't 
see you yesterday. But 

what with Jack Harper's arrival, everything got buggered up.'

 'That's OK.' 

I try to smile but my mouth is suddenly dry. I can't believe how 
nervous I feel. This is 

worse than a school report. 

'OK. So … Emma Corrigan.' He looks at the form and starts ticking 
boxes. 'Generally, 


you're doing fine. You're not generally late … you understand the 
tasks given to you … 
you're fairly efficient … you work OK with your colleagues … blah 
blah … blah … Any 

problems?' he says, looking up. 
'Er … no.' 
'Do you feel racially harassed?' 
'Er … no.' 

'Good.' He ticks another box. 'Well I think that's it. Well done. Can 
you send Nick in to 
see me?' 
What? Has he forgotten? 
'Um, what about my promotion?' I say, trying not to sound too 
anxious. 
'Promotion?' He stares at me. 'What promotion?' 
'To Marketing Executive.'

 'What the fuck are you talking about?' 
'It said. It said in the ad for my job …' I pull the crumpled ad out of 
my jeans pocket, 


where it's been since yesterday. '"Possible promotion after a 
year." It says it right there.' I 
push it across the desk, and he looks at it with a frown. 


'Emma, that was only for exceptional candidates. You're not ready 
for a promotion. 
You'll have to prove yourself first.' 



 'But I'm doing everything as well as I can! If you just give me a 
chance—' 

'You had the chance at Glen Oil.' Paul raises his eyebrows at me 
and I feel a twinge of 
humiliation. 'Emma, bottom line is, you're not ready for a higher 
position. In a year we'll 

see.'

 'A year ?'

 'OK? Now hop it.' 

My mind is whirling. I have to accept this in a calm, dignified way. 
I have to say 

something like 'I respect your decision, Paul', shake his hand and 
leave the room. This is 
what I have to do. 

The only trouble is, I can't seem to get up out of my chair. 

After a few moments Paul looks puzzledly at me. 'That's it, 
Emma.'

 I can't move. Once I leave this room, it's over. '

 'Emma?' 

'Please promote me,' I say desperately. 'Please. I have to get a 
promotion to impress my 
family. It's the only thing I want in the whole world, and I'll work so 
hard, I promise, I'll 
come in at weekends, and I'll … I'll wear smart suits …'

 ' What?' Paul is staring at me as though I've turned into a 
goldfish. 


'You don't have to pay me any more salary! I'll do all the same 
jobs as before. I'll even 
pay to have my new business cards printed! I mean, it won't make 
any difference to you. 


You won't even know I've been promoted!'


 I break off, breathing hard. 


'I think you'll find that's not quite the point of promotion, Emma,' 
says Paul sarcastically. 


'I'm afraid the answer's no. Even more so.'


 'But—'


 'Emma, a word of advice. If you want to get ahead, you have to 
create your own chances. 


You have to carve out your own opportunities. Now seriously. 
Could you please fuck off 


out of my office and get Nick for me?' 


As I leave I can see him raising his eyes to heaven and scribbling 
something else on my 
form.


 Great. He's probably writing 'Deranged lunatic, seek medical 
help'. 


As I walk dejectedly back to my desk, Artemis looks up with a 
beady expression. 'Oh, 
Emma,' she says, 'your cousin Kerry just called for you.' 


'Really?' I say in surprise. Kerry never phones me at work. In fact 
she never phones me 
at all. 'Did she leave a message?' 



 'Yes, she did. She wanted to know, have you heard about your 
promotion yet?'


 OK. This is now official. I hate Kerry. 


'Oh right,' I say, trying to sound as though this is some boring, 
everyday enquiry. 
'Thanks.' 


'Are you being promoted, Emma? I didn't know that!' Her voice is 
high and piercing, and 
I see a couple of people raise their heads in interest. 'So, are you 
going to become a 
marketing executive?'


 'No,' I mutter, my face hot with humiliation. 'I'm not.' 
'Oh!' Artemis pulls a mock-confused face. 'So why did she—' 
'Shut up, Artemis,' says Caroline. I give her a grateful look and 
slump into my chair. 
Another whole year. Another whole year of being the crappy 
marketing assistant, and 


everyone thinking I'm useless. Another year of being in debt to 
Dad, and Kerry and Nev 
laughing at me, and feeling like a complete failure. I switch on my 
computer and 
dispiritedly type a couple of words. But suddenly all my energy's 
gone.


 'I think I'll get a coffee,' I say. 'Does anyone want one?' 
'You can't get a coffee,' says Artemis, giving me an odd look. 
'Haven't you seen?' 
'What?' 
'They've taken the coffee machine away,' says Nick. 'While you 
were in with Paul.' 
'Taken it away?' I look at him, puzzled. 'But why?' 



'Dunno,' he says, walking off towards Paul's office. 'They just 
came and carted it away.' 
'We're getting a new machine!' says Caroline, walking past with a 
bundle of proofs. 


'That's what they were saying downstairs. A really nice one, with 
proper coffee. Ordered 
by Jack Harper, apparently.'


 She moves off, and I stare after her.


 Jack Harper ordered a new coffee machine? 


'Emma!' Artemis is saying impatiently. 'Did you hear that? I want 
you to find the leaflet 
we did for the Tesco promotion two years ago. Sorry, Mummy,' 
she says into the phone. 
'Just telling my assistant something.'


 Herassistant. God, it pisses me off when she says that. 
But to be honest, I'm feeling a bit too dazed to get annoyed. 
It's nothing to do with me, I tell myself firmly as I root around at 
the bottom of the filing 


cabinet. It's ridiculous to think I had anything to do with it. He was 
probably planning to 
order new coffee anyway. He was probably—


 I stand up with a pile of files in my arms and nearly drop them all 
on the floor. 


There he is.


 Standing right in front of me. 



 'Hello again.' His eyes crinkle in a smile. 'How are you doing?' 


'Er … good, thanks.' I swallow hard. 'I just heard about the coffee 
machine. Um … 
thanks.'


 'No problem.' 


'Now everyone!' Paul comes striding up behind him. 'Mr Harper is 
going to be sitting in 
on the department this morning.'


 'Please.' Jack Harper smiles. 'Call me Jack.' 


'Right you are. Jack is going to be sitting in this morning. He's 
going to observe what 
you do, find out how we operate as a team. Just behave normally, 
don't do anything 
special.' Paul's eyes alight on me and he gives me an ingratiating 
smile. 'Hi there, Emma! 
How are you doing? Everything OK?'


 'Er, yes thanks, Paul,' I mutter. 'Everything's great.' 


'Good! A happy staff, that's what we like. And, while I've got your 
attention,' he coughs a 
little selfconsciously, 'let me just remind you that our Corporate 
Family Day is coming 
up, a week on Saturday. A chance for us all to let our hair down, 
enjoy meeting each 
other's families, and have some fun!' 


We all stare at him a bit blankly. Until this moment, Paul has 
always referred to this as 
the Corporate Fuckwit Day and said he'd rather have his balls torn 
off than bring any 
member of his family to it. 



'Anyway, back to work, everyone! Jack, let me get you a chair.' 


'Just ignore me,' says Jack Harper pleasantly, as he sits down in 
the corner. 'Behave 
normally.'


 Behave normally. Right. Of course.


 So that would be sit down, take my shoes off, check my emails, 
put some hand cream on, 
eat a few Smarties, read my horoscope on iVillage, read Connor's 
horoscope, write 
'Emma Corrigan, Managing Director' several times in swirly letters 
on my notepad, add a 
border of flowers, send an email to Connor, wait a few minutes to 
see if he replies, take a 
swig of mineral water and then finally get round to finding the 
Tesco leaflet for Artemis.


 I don't think so. 


As I sit back down at my desk, my mind is working quickly. Create 
your own chances. 
Carve out your own opportunities. That's what Paul said. 


And what is this if not an opportunity? 


Jack Harper himself is sitting here, watching me work. The great 
Jack Harper. Boss of 
the entire corporation. Surely I can impress him somehow ? 


OK, perhaps I haven't got off to the most brilliant start with him. 
But maybe this is my 
chance to redeem myself! If I can just somehow show that I'm 
really bright and motivated 
… 


As I sit, leafing through the file of promotional literature, I'm 
aware that I'm holding my 



head slightly higher than usual, as though I'm in a posture class. 
And as I glance around 
the office, everyone else seems to be in a posture class, too. 
Before Jack Harper arrived, 
Artemis was on the phone to her mum, but now she's put on her 
horn-rimmed glasses and 
is typing briskly, occasionally pausing to smile at what she's 
written in a 'what a genius I 
am' way. Nick was reading the sports section of the Telegraph , 
but now I can see him 
studying some documents with graphs in them, with a deep 
frown. 

'Emma?' says Artemis in a falsely sweet voice. 'Have you found 
that leaflet I was asking 
you for? Not that there's any hurry—' 

'Yes, I have!' I say. I push back my chair, stand up, and walk over 
to her desk. I'm trying 
to look as natural as possible. But God, this is like being on telly or 
something. My legs 
aren't working properly and my smile is pasted onto my face and I 
have a horrible 
conviction I might suddenly shout 'Pants!' or something.

 'Here you are, Artemis,' I say, and carefully lay the leaflet on her 
desk.

 'Bless you!' says Artemis. Her eyes meet mine brightly and I 
realize she's acting, too. She puts her hand on mine, and gives 
me a twinkly smile. 'I don't know what we'd do without 
you, Emma!'

 'That's quite all right!' I say, matching her tone. 'Any time!' 

Shit, I think as I walk back to my desk. I should have said 
something cleverer. I should 
have said, 'Teamwork is what keeps this operation together.' 


 OK, never mind. I can still impress him. 


Trying to act as normally as possible I open a document and start 
to type as quickly and 
efficiently as I can, my back ramrod straight. I've never known the 
office this quiet. 
Everyone's tapping away, no-one's chatting. It's like being in an 
exam. My foot's itching, 
but I don't dare scratch it. 


How on earth do people do those fly-on-the-wall documentaries? I 
feel completely 
exhausted, and it's only been about five minutes.


 'It's very quiet in here,' says Jack Harper, sounding puzzled. 'Is it 
normally this quiet?'


 'Er …' We all look around uncertainly at each other. 


'Please, don't mind me. Talk away like you normally would. You 
must have office 
discussions.' He gives a friendly smile. 'When I worked in an 
office, we talked about 
everything under the sun. Politics, books … For instance, what 
have you all been reading 
recently?' 


'Actually, I've been reading the new biography of Mao Tse Tung,' 
says Artemis at once. 
'Fascinating stuff.'


 'I'm in the middle of a history of fourteenth-century Europe,' says 
Nick.


 'I'm just re-reading Proust,' says Caroline, with a modest shrug. 
'In the original French.'


 'Ah.' Jack Harper nods, his face unreadable. 'And … Emma, is it? 
What are you reading?' 



 'Um, actually …' I swallow, playing for time. 


I cannot say Celebrity Doodles – What Do They Mean ? Even 
though it is actually very 
good. Quick. What's a serious book? 


'You were reading Great Expectations , weren't you, Emma?' says 
Artemis. 'For your 
book club.'


 'Yes!' I say in relief. 'Yes, that's right—' 


And then I stop abruptly as I meet Jack Harper's gaze.


 Fuck.


 Inside my head, my own voice from the plane is babbling away 
innocently.


 '… just skimmed the back cover and pretended I'd read it …'


 ' Great Expectations,' says Jack Harper thoughtfully. 'What did 
you think of it, Emma?'


 I don't believe he asked me that.


 For a few moments I can't speak.


 'Well!' I clear my throat at last. 'I thought it … it was really … 
extremely …' 


'It's a wonderful book,' says Artemis earnestly. 'Once you fully 
understand the 
symbolism.' 
Shut up , you stupid show-off. Oh God. What am I going to say? 
'I thought it really … resonated,' I say at last. 
'What resonated?' says Nick. 
'The … um …' I clear my throat. 'The resonances.' 



There's a puzzled silence. 
'The resonances … resonated?' says Artemis. 
'Yes,' I say defiantly. 'They did. Anyway, I've got to get on with my 
work.' I turn away 
with a roll of my eyes and start typing feverishly. 
OK. So the book discussion didn't go that well. But that was just 
sheer bad luck. Think 
positive. I can still do this. I can still impress him— 
'I just don't know what's wrong with it!' Artemis is saying in a girly 
voice. 'I water it 
every day.' 
She pokes her spider plant and gazes at Jack Harper winsomely. 
'Do you know anything 
about plants, Jack?' 
'I don't, I'm afraid,' says Jack, and looks over at me, his face 
deadpan. 'What do you think 
could be wrong with it, Emma?' 


'… sometimes, when I'm pissed off with Artemis …' 
'I … I have no idea,' I say at last, and carry on typing, my face 
flaming. 
OK. Never mind. It doesn't matter. So I watered one little plant 
with orange juice. So 


what? 
'Has anyone seen my World Cup mug?' says Paul, walking into the 
office with a frown. 'I 


can't seem to find it anywhere.' 
'… I broke my boss's mug last week and hid the pieces in my 
handbag …' 
Shit. 
OK. Never mind. So I broke one tiny mug, too. It doesn't matter. 
Just keep typing. 
'Hey Jack,' says Nick, in a matey, lads-together voice. 'Just in case 
you don't think we 



have any fun, look up there!' He nods towards the picture of a 
photocopied, G-stringed 
bottom which has been up on the noticeboard since Christmas. 
'We still don't know who it 
is …'


 '… I had a few too many drinks at the last Christmas party …' 
OK, now I want to die. Someone please kill me. 
'Hi, Emma!' comes Katie's voice, and I look up to see her hurrying 
into the office, her 


face pink with excitement. When she sees Jack Harper, she stops 
dead. 'Oh!' 
'It's all right. I'm simply a fly on the wall.' He waves a friendly 
hand at her. 'Go ahead. 


Say whatever you were going to say.' 
'Hi Katie!' I manage. 'What is it?' 
As soon as I say her name, Jack Harper looks up again, a riveted 
expression on his face. 
I do not like the look of that riveted expression. 
What did I tell him about Katie? What? My mind spools furiously 
back. What did I say? 


What did I— 
I feel an internal lurch. Oh God. 
'… we have this secret code where she comes in and says, "Can I 
go through some 


numbers with you, Emma ?" and it really means " Shall we nip out 
to Starbucks…"' 
I told him our skiving code. 


I stare desperately at Katie's eager face, trying somehow to 
convey the message to her. 



Do not say it. Do not say you want to go over some numbers with 
me. 
But she's completely oblivious. 
'I just … erm …' She clears her throat in a businesslike way and 
glances self-consciously 


at Jack Harper. 'Could I possibly go over some numbers with you, 
Emma?' 
Fuck. 
My face floods with colour. My whole body is prickling. 
'You know,' I say, in a bright, artificial voice, 'I'm not sure that'll be 
possible today.' 
Katie stares at me in surprise. 
'But I have to … I really need you to go over some numbers with 
me.' She nods in 


excitement. 
'I'm quite tied up here with my work, Katie!' I force a smile, 
simultaneously trying to 


telegraph 'Shut up!' 
'It won't take long! Just quickly.' 
'I really don't think so.' 
Katie is practically hopping from foot to foot. 
'But Emma, they're very … important numbers. I really need to … 
to tell you about them 


…' 
'Emma.' At Jack Harper's voice I jump as though I've been stung. 
He leans towards me 


confidentially. 'Maybe you should go over the numbers.' 
I stare back at him for a few moments, unable to speak, blood 
pounding in my ears. 



'Right,' I manage after a long pause. 'OK. I'll do that.' 
SEVEN 
As I walk along the street with Katie, half of me is numb with 
horror, and half almost wants to burst into hysterical laughter. 
Everyone else is in the office, trying as hard as 
they can to impress Jack Harper. And here I am, strolling off 
nonchalantly under his nose 
for a cappuccino. 

'I'm sorry I interrupted you,' says Katie brightly, as we push our 
way through the doors of 
Starbucks. 'With Jack Harper there and everything. I had no idea 
he'd be just sitting there! 
But you know, I was really subtle,' she adds reassuringly. 'He'll 
never know what we're up 
to.'

 'I'm sure you're right,' I manage. 'He'll never guess in a million 
years.'

 'Are you OK, Emma?' Katie looks at me curiously. 

'I'm fine!' I say with a kind of shrill hilarity. 'I'm absolutely fine! So 
… why the 
emergency summit?' 

'I had to tell you. Two cappuccinos, please.' Katie beams at me 
excitedly. 'You won't 

believe it!'

 'What is it?'

 'I've got a date. I met a new guy!'

 'No!' I say, staring at her. 'Really? That was quick.' 

'Yes, it happened yesterday, just like you said! I deliberately 
walked further than usual in 


my lunch hour, and I found this really nice place where they were 
serving lunch. And 
there was this nice man in the line next to me – and he struck up 
a conversation with me. 
Then we shared a table and chatted some more … and I was just 
leaving, when he said 
did I fancy having a drink some time?' She takes the cappuccinos 
with a beam. 'So we're 
going out this evening.'


 'That's fantastic!' I say in delight. 'So come on, what's he like?' 


'He's lovely. He's called Phillip! He's got these lovely twinkly eyes, 
and he's really 


charming and polite, and he's got a great sense of humour …'


 'He sounds amazing!' 


'I know. I have a really good feeling about him.' Katie's face glows 
as we sit down. 'I 


really do. He just seems different. And I know this sounds really 
stupid, Emma …' she 
hesitates. 'But I feel you somehow brought him to me.'


 'Me?' I gape at her.


 'You gave me the confidence to speak to him.'


 'But all I said was—' 


'You said you knew I'd meet someone. You had faith in me. And I 
did!' Her eyes begin to 
shine. 'I'm sorry,' she whispers, and dabs her eyes with a napkin. 
'I'm just a bit overcome.'


 'Oh Katie.' 



'I just really think my life is going to turn around. I think 
everything's going to get better. 
And it's all down to you, Emma!'


 'Really, Katie,' I say awkwardly. 'It was nothing.' 


'It wasn't nothing!' she gulps. 'And I wanted to do something for 
you in return.' She 
rummages in her bag and pulls out a large piece of orange 
crochet. 'So I made you this 
last night.' She looks at me expectantly. 'It's a headscarf.'


 For a few moments, I can't move. A crochet headscarf. 


'Katie,' I manage at last, turning it over in my fingers. 'Really, you 
… you shouldn't 
have!' 


'I wanted to! To say thank you.' She looks at me earnestly. 
'Especially after you lost that 
crochet belt I made for you for Christmas.' 


'Oh!' I say, feeling a pang of guilt. 'Er, yes. That was … such a 
shame.' I swallow. 'It was 


a lovely belt. I was really upset to lose it.'


 'Oh what the hell!' Her eyes well up again. 'I'll make you a new 
belt, too.'


 'No!' I say in alarm. 'No, Katie, don't do that.'


 'But I want to!' She leans forward and gives me a hug. 'That's 
what friends are for!' 


It's another twenty minutes before we finish our second 
cappuccinos and head back for 



the office. As we approach the Panther building I glance at my 
watch and see with a lurch 
that we've been gone thirty-five minutes in all.


 'Isn't it amazing we're getting new coffee machines?' says Katie 
as we hurry up the steps.


 'Oh … yes. It's great.' 


My stomach has started to churn at the thought of facing Jack 
Harper again. I haven't felt 
so nervous since I took my grade one clarinet exam and when the 
examiner asked me 
what my name was I burst into tears.


 'Well, see you later,' says Katie as we reach the first floor. 'And 
thanks, Emma.'


 'No problem,' I say. 'See you later.' 


As I start to walk along the corridor towards the marketing 
department, I'm aware that 
my legs aren't moving quite as quickly as usual. In fact, as the 
door is nearing, they're 
getting slower, and slower … and slower … 


One of the secretaries from Accounts overtakes me, with a brisk 
high-heeled pace, and 
gives me an odd look.


 Oh God. I can't go in there. 


Yes I can. It'll be fine. I'll just sit down very quietly and get on with 
my work. Maybe he 
won't even notice me. 


Come on. The longer I leave it, the worse it'll be. I take a deep 
breath, close my eyes, 
take a few steps into the marketing department, and open them. 



There's a hubbub around Artemis's desk, and no sign of Jack 
Harper.


 'I mean, maybe he's going to rethink the whole company,' 
someone's saying.


 'I've heard this rumour he's got a secret project …' 


'He can't completely centralize the marketing function,' Artemis is 
saying, trying to raise 
her voice above everyone else's.


 'Where's Jack Harper?' I say, trying to sound casual.


 'He's gone,' says Nick, and I feel a whoosh of relief. Gone! He's 
gone!


 'Is he coming back?' 


'Don't think so. Emma, have you done those letters for me yet? 
Because I gave them to 
you three days ago—' 


'I'll do them now,' I say, and beam at Nick. As I sit down at my 
desk, I feel as light as a 
helium balloon. Cheerfully I kick off my shoes, reach for my Evian 
bottle – and stop. 


There's a folded piece of paper resting on my keyboard, with 
'Emma' written on it in a 
handwriting I don't recognize. 


Puzzled, I look around the office. No-one's looking at me, waiting 
for me to find it. In 
fact no-one seems to have noticed. They're all too busy talking 
about Jack Harper.


 Slowly I unfold it and stare at the message inside. 



 Hope your meeting was productive. I always find numbers give 
me a real buzz. 

Jack Harper 
It could have been worse. It could have read 'Clear your desk'. 
Even so, for the rest of the day, I'm completely on edge. Every 
time anyone walks into 

the department I feel a little spasm of panic. And when someone 
starts talking loudly 
outside our door about how 'Jack says he may pop back into 
Marketing', I seriously 
consider hiding in the loos until he's gone. 

On the dot of 5.30 I stop typing mid-sentence, close my computer 
down and grab my 
coat. I'm not waiting around for him to reappear. I all but run 
down the stairs, and only 
begin to relax when I'm safely on the other side of the big glass 
doors. 

The tubes are miraculously quick for once, and I arrive home 
within twenty minutes. As 
I push open the front door of the flat I can hear a strange noise 
coming from Lissy's room. 
A kind of thumping, bumping sound. Maybe she's moving her 
furniture around. 

'Lissy,' I call asl go into the kitchen. 'You will not believe what 
happened today.' I open 
the fridge, take out a bottle of Evian and hold it against my hot 
forehead. After a while I 
open the bottle and take a few swigs, then wander out into the 
hall again to see Lissy's 
door opening.

 'Lissy!' I begin. 'What on earth were you—' 
And then I halt, as out of the door comes not Lissy, but a man. 


A man! A tall thin guy in trendy black trousers and steel 
spectacles. 
'Oh,' I say, taken aback. 'Er … hi.' 
'Emma!' says Lissy, following him out. She's wearing a T-shirt over 
some grey leggings 

I've never seen before, is drinking a glass of water and looks 
startled to see me. 'You're 
home early.'

 'I know. I was in a hurry.' 

This is Jean-Paul,' says Lissy. 'Jean-Paul, my flatmate Emma.'

 'Hello, Jean-Paul,' I say with a friendly smile.

 'Good to meet you, Emma,' says Jean-Paul, in a French accent.

 God, French accents are sexy. I mean, they just are.

 'Jean-Paul and I were just … um … going over some case notes,' 
says Lissy. 

'Oh right,' I say brightly. 'Lovely!' 
Case notes. Yeah, right. Because that would really make a whole 
load of thumping 

noises.

 Lissy is such a dark horse! 


 'I must be going,' says Jean-Paul, looking at Lissy. 
'I'll just see you out,' she says, flustered. 

She disappears out of the front door, and I can hear the two of 
them murmuring on the 
landing. 
I take a few more swigs of Evian, then walk into the sitting room 

and slump down 
heavily on the sofa. My whole body's aching from sitting rigid with 
tension all day. This 
is seriously bad for my health. How on earth am I going to survive 
a whole week of Jack 

Harper? 
'So!' I say as Lissy walks back into the room. 'What's going on?' 
'What do you mean?' she says shiftily. 
'You and Jean-Paul! How long have you two been …' 

'We're not,' starts Lissy, turning red. 'It's not … We were going 
over case notes. That's 
all.' 
'Sure you were.' 
'We were! That's all it was!'

 'OK,' I say, raising my eyebrows. 'If you say so.' 
Lissy sometimes gets like this, all shy and abashed. I'll just have 
to get her pissed one 

night, and she'll admit it. 


 'So how was your day?' she says, sinking onto the floor and 
reaching for a magazine.


 How was my day?


 I don't even know where to start.


 'My day,' I say at last. 'My day was a bit of a nightmare.' 


'Really?' says Lissy, looking up in surprise. 
'No, take that back. It was a complete nightmare.' 
'What happened?' Lissy's attention is fully grabbed. 'Tell me!' 
'OK.' I take a deep breath and smooth my hair back, wondering 
where on earth to start. 


'OK, remember I had that awful flight back from Scotland last 
week?' 


'Yes!' Lissy's face lights up. 'And Connor came to meet you and it 
was all really romantic 
…' 


'Yes. Well.' I clear my throat. 'Before that. On the flight. There was 
this … this man 
sitting next to me. And the plane got really turbulent.' I bite my 
lip. 'And the thing is, I 
honestly thought we were all going to die and this was the last 
person I would ever see, 


and … I …'


 'Oh my God!' Lissy claps her hand over her mouth. 'You didn't 
have sex with him.'


 'Worse! I told him all my secrets.' 



I'm expecting Lissy to gasp, or say something sympathetic like 
'Oh no!' but she's staring 
at me blankly. 
'What secrets?' 
'My secrets. You know.' 
Lissy looks as if I've told her I've got an artificial leg. 
'You have secrets ?' 
'Of course I have secrets!' I say. 'Everyone has a few secrets.' 
'I don't!' she says at once, looking offended. 'I don't have any 
secrets.' 
'Yes you do!'

 'Like what?' 
'Like … like … OK.' I start counting off on my fingers. 'You never 
told your dad it was 

you who lost the garage key that time.' 
'That was ages ago!' says Lissy scornfully. 
'You never told Simon you were hoping he might propose to you 

…' 
'I wasn't!' says Lissy, colouring. 'Well, OK, maybe I was …' 
'You think that sad guy next door fancies you …' 
'That's not a secret !' she says, rolling her eyes. 
'Oh right. Shall I tell him, then?' I lean back towards the open 
window. 'Hey Mike,' I call. 



'Guess what? Lissy thinks you—' 
'Stop!' says Lissy frantically. 
'You see? You have got secrets. Everyone has secrets. The Pope 
probably has a few 


secrets.' 
'OK,' says Lissy. 'OK. You've made your point. But I don't 
understand what the problem 


is. So you told some guy on a plane your secrets—' 
'And now he's turned up at work.' 
'What?' Lissy stares at me. 'Are you serious? Who is he?' 
'He's …' I'm about to say Jack Harper's name when I remember 
the promise I made. 'He's 


just this … this guy who's come in to observe,' I say vaguely. 
'Is he senior?' 
'He's … yes. You could say he's pretty senior.' 
'Blimey.' Lissy frowns, thinking for a few moments. 'Well, does it 
really matter? If he 


knows a few things about you.' 
'Lissy, it wasn't just a few things.' I feel myself flush slightly. 'It 
was everything . I told 


him I faked a grade on my CV.' 
'You faked a grade on your CV ?' echoes Lissy in shock. 'Are you 
serious?' 
'I told him about feeding Artemis's spider plant orange juice, I told 
him I find G-strings 


uncomfortable …' 
I tail off to see Lissy staring at me, aghast. 



'Emma,' she says at last. 'Have you ever heard the phrase "too 
much information?"' 
'I didn't mean to say any of it!' I retort defensively. 'It just kind of 
came out! I'd had three 


vodkas, and I thought we were about to die. Honestly, Lissy, you 
would have been the 
same. Everyone was screaming, people were praying, the plane 
was lurching around …' 
'So you blab all your secrets to your boss.' 
'But he wasn't my boss on the plane!' I cry in frustration. 'He was 
just some stranger. I 


was never supposed to see him again!' 
There's silence as Lissy takes this all in. 
'You know, this is like what happened to my cousin,' she says at 
last. 'She went to a party, 


and there, right in front of her, was the doctor who'd delivered her 
baby two months 
before.' 
'Ooh.' I pull a face. 


'Exactly! She said she was so embarrassed, she had to leave. I 
mean, he'd seen 
everything! She said somehow it didn't matter when she was in a 
hospital room, but when 
she saw him standing there, holding a glass of wine and chatting 
about house prices, it 
was a different matter.' 


'Well, this is the same,' I say hopelessly. 'He knows all my most 
intimate, personal 
details. But the difference is, I can't just leave! I have to sit there 
and pretend to be a good 
employee. And he knows I'm not.' 



 'So what are you going to do?' 
'I don't know! I suppose all I can do is try to avoid him.' 
'How long is he over for?' 
'The rest of the week,' I say despairingly. 'The whole week.' 
I pick up the zapper and turn on the television and for a few 
moments we stare silently at 


a load of dancing models in Gap jeans. 
The ad finishes, and I look up again, to see Lissy looking at me 
curiously. 
'What?' I say. 'What is it?' 
'Emma …' She clears her throat awkwardly. 'You don't have any 
secrets from me , do 


you?' 
'From you ?' I say, slightly thrown. 
A series of images flashes rapidly through my mind. That weird 
dream I once had about 


Lissy and me being lesbians. Those couple of times I've bought 
supermarket carrots and 


sworn to her they were organic. The time when we were fifteen 
and she went to France 
and I got off with Mike Appleton whom she had a complete crush 
on, and never told her. 


'No! Of course not!' I say, and quickly take a sip of water. 'Why? 
Have you got any from 
me?' 


Two dots of pink appear on Lissy's cheeks. 


'No, of course I haven't!' she says in an unnatural voice. 'I was 
just … wondering.' She 



reaches for the TV guide and starts to flip through it, avoiding my 
gaze. 'You know. Just 
out of interest.'

 'Yes, well.' I give a shrug. 'So was I.' 
Wow. Lissy's got a secret. I wonder what it— 
Of course. Like she was really going over case notes with that guy. 
Does she think I'm a 
complete moron? 

EIGHT

 I arrive at work the next morning with exactly one aim. Avoid Jack 
Harper. 

It should be easy enough. The Panther Corporation is a huge 
company in a huge 
building. He'll be busy in other departments today. He'll probably 
be tied up in loads of 
meetings. He'll probably spend all day on the eleventh floor or 
something. 

Even so, as I approach the big glass doors, my pace slows down 
and I find myself 
peering inside to see if he's about. 

'All right, Emma?' says Dave the security guard, coming to open 
the door for me. 'You 
look lost.'

 'No! I'm fine, thanks!' I give a relaxed little laugh, my eyes 
darting about the foyer. 

I can't see him anywhere. OK. This is going to be fine. He probably 
isn't in yet. He 
probably isn't even coming in today. I throw my hair back 
confidently, walk briskly 
across the marble floor, and start to walk up the stairs. 


 'Jack!' I suddenly hear as I'm nearing the first floor. 'Have you got 
a minute?'

 'Sure.'

 It's his voice. Where on earth— 

I turn around, bewildered, and spot him on the landing above, 
talking to Graham 

Hillingdon. My heart gives a huge jump, and I clutch the brass 
banister. Shit. If he looked 
down now he'd see me. 

Why does he have to stand right there ? Doesn't he have some 
big important office he 
can go to? 

Anyway. It doesn't matter. I'll just … take a different route. Very 
slowly I take a few 
steps back down the stairs, trying not to click my heels on the 
marble or move suddenly 
in case I attract his attention. Moira from Accounts walks past as 
I'm carefully stepping 
backwards and gives me an odd look, but I don't care. I have to 
get away. 

As soon as I'm out of his view I feel myself relax, and walk more 
quickly back down to 
the foyer. I'll go by lift, instead. No problem. I step confidently 
across the floor, and I'm 
right in the middle of the huge expanse of marble when I freeze. 

'That's right.' It's his voice again. And it seems to be getting 
nearer. Or am I just 
paranoid?

 '… think I'll take a good look at …' 


 My head swivels around. Where is he now? Which direction is he 
going in?

 '… really think that …'

 Shit. He's coming down the stairs. There's nowhere to hide! 

Without thinking twice I almost run to the glass doors, push them 
open, and hurry out of 
the building. I scuttle down the steps, run about a hundred yards 
down the road and stop, 
panting. 

This is not going well. 
I stand on the pavement for a few minutes in the morning 
sunshine, trying to estimate 
how long he will stay in the foyer, then cautiously approach the 
glass doors again. New 
tactic. I will walk to my office so incredibly quickly, I can't catch 
anyone's eye. So it 
won't matter if I pass Jack Harper or not. I will simply stride along 
without looking right 
or left and oh my God there he is, talking to Dave. 

Without quite meaning to, I find myself running back down the 
steps and along the street 
again. 

This is getting ridiculous. I can't stay out here on the street all 
day. I have to get to my 
desk. Come on, think. There must be a way round this. There 
must be— 

Yes! I have a totally brilliant idea. This will definitely work. 

Three minutes later I approach the doors of the Panther building 
once more, totally 


engrossed in an article in The Times . I can't see anything around 
me. And no-one can see 
my face. This is the perfect disguise! 

I push the door open with my shoulder, walk across the foyer and 
up the stairs, all 
without looking up. As I stride along the corridor towards the 
marketing department, I 
feel all cocooned and safe, buried in my Times . I should do this 
more often. No-one can 
get me in here. It's a really reassuring feeling, almost as though 
I'm invisible, or—

 'Ow! Sorry!' 

I've crashed into someone. Shit. I lower my paper, to see Paul 
staring at me, rubbing his 

head.

 'Emma, what the fuck are you doing?'

 'I was just reading The Times ,' I say feebly. 'I'm really sorry.' 

'All right. Anyway, where the hell have you been? I want you to do 
teas and coffees at 

the departmental meeting. Ten o'clock.' 

'What teas and coffees?' I say, puzzled. They don't usually have 
any refreshments at the 
departmental meeting. In fact, usually only about six people turn 
up. 

'We're having teas and coffees today,' he says. 'And biscuits. All 
right? Oh, and Jack 

Harper's coming along.' 


 'What?' I stare at him in consternation.


 'Jack Harper's coming along,' repeats Paul impatiently. 'So hurry 
up.'


 'Do I have to go?' I say before I can stop myself.


 'What?' Paul stares at me with a blank frown.


 'I was just wondering if I … have to go, or whether …' I tail off 
feebly. 


'Emma, if you can serve tea and coffee by telepathy,' says Paul 
sarcastically, 'then you're 
more than welcome to stay at your desk. If not, would you most 
kindly get your arse in 
gear and up to the conference room. You know, for someone who 
wants to advance their 
career … 'He shakes his head and stalks off.


 How can this day have gone so wrong already and I haven't even 
sat down yet? 


I dump my bag and jacket at my desk, hurry back down the 
corridors to the lifts, and 
press the Up button. A moment later, one pings in front of me, 
and the doors open. 


No. No. 
This is a bad dream. 
Jack Harper is standing alone in the lift, in old jeans and a brown 
cashmere sweater. 
Before I can stop myself I take a startled step backwards. Jack 
Harper puts his mobile 


phone away, tilts his head to one side and gives me a quizzical 
look. 



 'Are you getting into the elevator?' he says mildly.

 I'm stuffed. What can I say? I can't say 'No, I just pressed the 
button for fun, haha!'

 'Yes,' I say at last and walk into the lift with stiff legs. 'Yes I am.' 

The doors close, and we begin to travel upwards in silence. I've 
got a knot of tension in 

my stomach. 

'Erm, Mr Harper,' I say awkwardly, and he looks up. 'I just wanted 
to apologize for my 
… for the, um, shirking episode the other day. It won't happen 
again.' 

'You have drinkable coffee now,' says Jack Harper, raising his 
eyebrows. 'So you 
shouldn't need to go to Starbucks, at any rate.' 

'I know. I'm really sorry,' I say, my face hot. 'And may I assure 
you, that was the very last 
time I will ever do such a thing.' I clear my throat. 'I am fully 
committed to the Panther 
Corporation, and I look forward to serving this company as best as 
I can, giving one 

hundred per cent, every day, now and in the future.'

 I almost want to add 'Amen'. 

'Really.' Jack looks at me, his mouth twitching. 'That's … great.' He 
thinks for a moment. 


'Emma, can you keep a secret?' 
'Yes,' I say apprehensively. 'What is it?' 
Jack leans close and whispers, 'I used to play hookey too.' 
'What?' I stare at him. 

'In my first job,' he continues in his normal voice. 'I had a friend I 

used to hang out with. 
We had a code, too.' His eyes twinkle. 'One of us would ask the 
other to bring him the 
Leopold file.'


 'What was the Leopold file?' 



 'It didn't exist.' He grins. 'It was just an excuse to get away from 
our desks.' 
'Oh. Oh right!' 
Suddenly I feel a bit better. 
Jack Harper used to skive ? I would have thought he was too busy 
being a brilliant 

creative dynamic genius, or whatever he is. 

The lift stops at floor 3 and the doors open, but no-one gets in.

 'So, your colleagues seemed a very pleasant lot,' says Jack as we 
start travelling up again. 

'A very friendly, industrious team. Are they like that all the time?' 

'Absolutely!' I say at once. 'We enjoy cooperating with one 
another, in an integrated, 
team-based … um … operational …' I'm trying to think of another 
long word when I 

make the mistake of catching his eye.

 He knows this is bullshit, doesn't he?

 Oh God. What is the point? 

'OK.' I lean against the lift wall. 'In real life, we don't behave 
anything like that. Paul 
usually shouts at me six times a day, and Nick and Artemis hate 
each other, and we don't 
usually sit around discussing literature. We were all faking it.' 


'You amaze me.' His mouth twitches. 'The atmosphere in the 
admin department also 
seemed very false. My suspicions were aroused when two 
employees spontaneously 
started singing the Panther Corporation song. I didn't even know 
there was a Panther 
Corporation song.'


 'Neither did I,' I say in surprise. 'Is it any good?' 
'What do you think?' He raises his eyebrows comically and I give a 
little giggle. 
It's bizarre, but the atmosphere between us isn't remotely 
awkward any more. In fact, it 


almost feels like we're old friends or something.


 'How about this Corporate Family Day?' he says. 'Looking forward 
to it?'


 'Like having teeth pulled out,' I say bluntly. 


'I got that vibe.' He nods, looking amused. 'And what …' He 
hesitates. 'What do people 
think about me?' He casually rumples his hair. 'You don't have to 
answer if you don't want 
to.' 


'No, everyone likes you!' I think for a few moments. 'Although … 
some people think 
your friend is creepy.' 


'Who, Sven?' Jack stares at me for a minute, then throws back his 
head and laughs. 'I can 
assure you, Sven is one of my oldest, closest friends, and he's not 
in the least bit creepy. 



In fact—' 


He breaks off as the lift doors ping. We both snap back into 
impassive expressions and 
move slightly away from each other. The doors open, and my 
stomach gives a lurch. 
Connor is standing on the other side. 
As he sees Jack Harper his face lights up as though he can't 
believe his luck. 
'Hi there!' I say, trying to sound natural. 
'Hi,' he says, his eyes shining with excitement, and walks into the 
lift. 
'Hello,' says Jack pleasantly. 'Which floor would you like?' 


'Nine, please.' Connor swallows. 'Mr Harper, may I quickly 
introduce myself?' He 
eagerly holds out his hand. 'Connor Martin from Research. You're 
coming to visit our 
department later on today.' 


'It's a pleasure to meet you, Connor,' says Jack kindly. 'Research is 
vital for a company 
like ours.' 


'You're so right!' says Connor, looking thrilled. 'In fact, I'm looking 
forward to discussing 
with you the latest research findings on Panther Sportswear. 
We've come up with some 
very fascinating results involving customer preferences on fabric 
thickness. You'll be 
amazed!'


 'I'm … sure I will,' says Jack. 'I look forward to it.' 
Connor gives me an excited grin. 
'You've already met Emma Corrigan from our marketing 
department?' he says. 
'Yes, we've met.' Jack's eyes gleam at me. 
We travel for a few seconds in an awkward silence. 
This is weird. 



No. It's not weird. It's fine. 


'How are we doing for time?' says Connor. He glances at his watch 
and in slight horror, I 
see Jack's eyes falling on it. 
Oh God. 
'… I gave him a really nice watch, but he insists on wearing this 
orange digital thing …' 
'Wait a minute!' says Jack, dawn breaking over his face. He stares 
at Connor as through 
seeing him for the first time. 'Wait a minute. You're Ken.' 
Oh no. 
Oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh no, oh— 
'It's Connor,' says Connor puzzledly. 'Connor Martin.' 
'I'm sorry!' Jack hits his head with his fist. 'Connor. Of course. And 
you two –' he 
gestures to me '– are an item?' 
Connor looks uncomfortable. 
'I can assure you, sir, that at work our relationship is strictly 
professional. However, in a 
private context, Emma and I are … yes, having a personal 
relationship.' 
'That's wonderful!' says Jack encouragingly, and Connor beams, 
like a flower 
blossoming in the sun. 
'In fact,' he adds proudly, 'Emma and I have just decided to move 
in together.' 
'Is that so?' Jack shoots me a look of genuine surprise. 'That's … 
great news. When did 
you make that decision?' 
'Just a couple of days ago,' says Connor. 'At the airport.' 
'At the airport,' echoes Jack Harper after a short silence. 'Very 
interesting.' 
I can't look at Jack Harper. I'm staring desperately at the floor. 
Why can't this bloody lift 
go quicker? 
'Well, I'm sure you'll be very happy together,' Jack Harper says to 
Connor. 'You seem 
very compatible.' 



'Oh we are!' says Connor at once. 'We both love jazz, for a start.' 
'Is that so?' says Jack thoughtfully. 'You know, I can't think of 
anything nicer in the world 


than a shared love of jazz.'


 He's taking the piss. This is unbearable.


 'Really?' says Connor eagerly.


 'Absolutely.' Jack nods. 'I'd say jazz, and … Woody Allen films.'


 'We love Woody Allen films!' says Connor in amazed delight. 
'Don't we, Emma!'


 'Yes,' I say a little hoarsely. 'Yes, we do.'


 'Now Connor, tell me,' says Jack in confidential tones. 'Did you 
ever find Emma's …'


 If he says 'G spot' I will die. I will die. I will die . 


'… presence here distracting? Because I can imagine I would!' 
Jack gives Connor a 
friendly smile, but Connor doesn't smile back. 


'As I said, sir,' he says, a little stiffly, 'Emma and I operate on a 
strictly professional basis 
whilst at work. We would never dream of abusing the company's 
time for our own … 
ends.' He flushes. 'I mean, by ends, I don't mean … I meant …'


 'I'm glad to hear it,' says Jack, looking amused. 
God, why does Connor have to be such a goody-goody ? 
The lift pings, and I feel relief drain over me. Thank God, at last I 
can escape— 
'Looks like we're all going to the same place,' says Jack Harper 
with a grin. 'Connor, why 



don't you lead the way?' 

I can't cope with this. I just can't cope. As I pour out cups of tea 
and coffee for members 
of the marketing department, I'm outwardly calm, smiling at 
everyone and even chatting 
pleasantly. But inside I'm all unsettled and confused. I don't want 
to admit it to myself, 
but seeing Connor through Jack Harper's eyes has thrown me. 

I love Connor, I tell myself over and over. I didn't mean any of 
what I said on the plane. I 
love him. I run my eyes over his face, trying to reassure myself. 
There's no doubt about it. 
Connor is good-looking by any standards. He glows with good 
health. His hair is shiny 
and his eyes are blue and he's got a gorgeous dimple when he 
smiles. 

Jack Harper, on the other hand, looks kind of weary and 
dishevelled. He's got shadows 
under his eyes and his hair is all over the place. And there's a hole 
in his jeans. 

But even so. It's as if he's some kind of magnet. I'm sitting here, 
my attention firmly on the tea trolley, and yet somehow I can't 
keep my eyes off him. 

It's because of the plane, I keep telling myself. It's just because 
we were in a traumatic 
situation together; that's why. No other reason. 

'We need more lateral thinking, people,' Paul is saying. The 
Panther Bar is simply not 
performing as it should. Connor, you have the latest research 
statistics?' 


Connor stands up, and I feel a flip of apprehension on his behalf. I 
can tell he's really 
nervous from the way he keeps fiddling with his cuffs. 


'That's right, Paul.' He picks up a clipboard and clears his throat. 
'In our latest survey, 
1,000 teenagers were questioned on aspects of the Panther Bar. 
Unfortunately, the results 
were inconclusive.' 


He presses his remote control. A graph appears on the screen 
behind him, and we all 
stare at it obediently. 


'Seventy-four per cent of 10-14-year-olds felt the texture could be 
more chewy,' says 
Connor earnestly. 'However, 67 per cent of 15-18-year-olds felt 
the texture could be more 


crunchy, while 22 per cent felt it could be less crunchy …'


 I glance over Artemis's shoulder and see she's written 
'Chewy/crunchy??' on her notepad.


 Connor presses the remote control again, and another graph 
appears.


 'Now, 46 per cent of 10-14-year-olds felt the flavour was too 
tangy. However, 33 per cent 


of 15—18-year-olds felt it was not tangy enough, while …' 


Oh God. I know it's Connor. And I love him and everything. But 
can't he make this 
sound a bit more interesting ? 


I glance over to see how Jack Harper is taking it and he raises his 
eyebrows at me. 



Immediately I flush, feeling disloyal.

 He'll think I was laughing at Connor. Which I wasn't. I wasn't. 

'And 90 per cent of female teenagers would prefer the calorie 
content to be reduced,' 


Connor concludes. 'But the same proportion would also like to see 
a thicker chocolate 
coating.' He gives a helpless shrug.


 'They don't know what the hell they want,' says someone. 


'We polled a broad cross-section of teenagers,' says Connor, 
'including Caucasians, Afro-
Caribbeans, Asians, and … er …' he peers at the paper. 'Jedi 
knights.' 


'Teenagers!' says Artemis, rolling her eyes. 
'Briefly remind us of our target market, Connor,' says Paul with a 
frown. 
'Our target market …' Connor consults another clipboard, 'is aged 
10-18, in full or part 


time education. He/she drinks Panther Cola four times a week, 
eats burgers three times a 
week, visits the cinema twice a week, reads magazines and 
comics but not books, is most 
likely to agree with the lifestyle statement "It's more important to 
be cool than rich" …' 
he looks up. 'Shall I go on?'


 'Does he/she eat toast for breakfast?' says somebody 
thoughtfully. 'Or cereal?' 



'I … I'm not sure,' says Connor, riffling quickly through his pages. 
'We could do some 
more research …' 
'I think we get the picture,' says Paul. 'Does anyone have any 

thoughts on this?' 
All this time, I've been plucking up courage to speak, and now I 
take a deep breath. 


'You know, my grandpa really likes Panther Bars!' I say. Everyone 
swivels in their chairs 
to look at me, and I feel my face grow hot. 
'What relevance does that have?' says Paul with a frown. 
'I just thought I could …' I swallow. 'I could maybe ask him what 

he thinks …' 
'With all due respect, Emma,' says Connor, with a smile which 
verges on patronizing, 


'your grandfather is hardly in our target demographic!' 
'Unless he started very young,' quips Artemis. 


 I flush, feeling stupid, and pretend to be reorganizing the 
teabags. 

To be honest, I feel a bit hurt. Why did Connor have to say that? I 
know he wants to be 

all professional and proper when we're at work. But that's not the 
same as being mean, is 
it? I'd always stick up for him. 

'My own view,' Artemis is saying, 'is that if the Panther Bar isn't 
performing, we should 
axe it. It's quite obviously a problem child.' 

I look up in slight dismay. They can't axe the Panther Bar! What 
will Grandpa take to his 
bowling tournaments?

 'Surely a fully cost-based, customer-oriented re-branding—' 
begins somebody. 

'I disagree.' Artemis leans forward. 'If we're going to maximise our 
concept innovation in 

a functional and logistical way, then surely we need to focus on 
our strategic 
competencies—' 

'Excuse me,' says Jack Harper, lifting a hand. It's the first time 
he's spoken, and everyone 
turns to look. There's a prickle of anticipation in the air, and 
Artemis glows smugly. 'Yes, 
Mr Harper?' she says. 


 'I have no idea what you're talking about,' he says. 

The whole room reverberates in shock, and I give a snort of 
laughter without quite 
meaning to. 

'As you know, I've been out of the business arena for a while.' He 
smiles. 'Could you 
please translate what you just said into standard English?' 

'Oh,' says Artemis, looking discomfited. 'Well, I was simply saying, 
that from a strategic 

point of view, notwithstanding our corporate vision …' she tails off 
at his expression.

 'Try again,' he says kindly. 'Without using the word strategic.' 

'Oh,' says Artemis again, and rubs her nose. 'Well, I was just 
saying that … we should … 

concentrate on … on what we do well.'

 'Ah!' Jack Harper's eyes gleam. 'Now I understand. Please, carry 
on.'

 He glances at me, rolls his eyes and grins, and I can't help giving 
a tiny grin back. 

After the meeting, people trickle out of the room, still talking, and 
I go round the table, 

picking up coffee cups. 

'It was very good to meet you, Mr Harper,' I can hear Connor 
saying eagerly. 'If you'd 
like a transcript of my presentation …' 


'You know, I don't think that will be necessary,' Jack says in that 
dry, quizzical voice. 'I 


think I more or less got the gist.'


 Oh God. Doesn't Connor realize he's trying too hard? 


I balance all the cups in precarious piles on the trolley, then start 
collecting up the biscuit 


wrappers. 


'Now, I'm due in the design studio right about now,' Jack Harper's 
saying, 'but I don't 
quite remember where it is …' 


'Emma!' says Paul sharply. 'Can you please show Jack to the 
design studio? You can 
clear up the rest of the coffee later.' 


I freeze, clutching an orange cream wrapper. 
Please, no more. 
'Of course,' I manage at last. 'It would be a … pleasure. This way.' 
Awkwardly, I usher Jack Harper out of the meeting room and we 
begin to walk down the 


corridor, side by side. My face is tingling slightly as people try not 
to stare at us, and I'm 
aware of everyone else in the corridor turning into self-conscious 
robots as soon as they 
see him. People in adjacent offices are nudging each other 
excitedly, and I hear at least 
one person hissing 'He's coming!'


 Is it like this everywhere Jack Harper goes? 
'So,' he says conversationally after a while. 'You're moving in with 
Ken.' 
'It's Connor ,' I say. 'And yes.' 



'Looking forward to it?' 
'Yes. Yes, lam.' 
We've reached the lifts and I press the button. I can feel his 
quizzical eyes on me. I can 


feel them. 
'What?' I say defensively, turning to look at him. 
'Did I say anything?' He raises his eyebrows. As I see the 
expression on his face I feel 


stung. What does he know about it? 
'I know what you're thinking,' I say, lifting my chin defiantly. 'But 
you're quite wrong.' 
'I'm wrong?' 
'Yes! You're … misapprehended.' 
' Misapprehended?' 
He looks as if he wants to laugh, and a small voice inside my head 
is telling me to stop. 


But I can't. I have to explain to him how it is. 
'Look. I know I might have made certain … comments to you on 
the plane,' I begin, 
clenching my fists tightly at my side. 'But what you have to know 
is that that 
conversation took place under duress, in extreme circumstances, 
and I said a lot of things 
I didn't really mean. A lot of things, actually!' 


There! That tells him. 
'I see,' says Jack thoughtfully. 'So … you don't like double 
chocolate chip Haagen-Dazs 


ice-cream.' 
I gaze at him, discomfited. 



'I …' I clear my throat several times. 'Some things, obviously, I did 
mean—' 
The lift doors ping, and both our heads jerk up. 
'Jack!' says Cyril, standing on the other side of the doors. 'I 
wondered where you were.' 
'I've been having a nice chat with Emma here,' says Jack. 'She 
kindly offered to show me 


the way.' 
'Ah.' Cyril's eyes run dismissively over me. 'Well, they're waiting 
for you in the studio.' 
'So, um … I'll just go, then,' I say awkwardly. 
'See you later,' says Jack with a grin. 'Good talking to you, Emma.' 


NINE 
As I leave the office that evening I feel all agitated, like one of 
those snow globes. I was 


perfectly happy being an ordinary, dull little Swiss village. But 
now Jack Harper's come 
and shaken me up, and there are snowflakes all over the place, 
whirling around, not 
knowing what they think any more. 


And bits of glitter, too. Tiny bits of shiny, secret excitement. 
Every time I catch his eye or hear his voice, it's like a dart to my 
chest. 
Which is ridiculous. Ridiculous. 
Connor is my boyfriend. Connor is my future. He loves me and I 
love him and I'm 


moving in with him. And we're going to have wooden floors and 
shutters and granite 
worktops. So there. 
So there. 



I arrive home to find Lissy on her knees in the sitting room, 
helping Jemima into the 
tightest black suede dress I've ever seen. 
'Wow!' I say, as I put down my bag. 'That's amazing!' 


'There!' pants Lissy, and sits back on her heels. 'That's the zip 
done. Can you breathe?' 
Jemima doesn't move a muscle. Lissy and I glance at each other. 
'Jemima!' says Lissy in alarm. 'Can you breathe?' 
'Kind of,' says Jemima at last. 'I'll be fine.' Very slowly, with a 
totally rigid body, she 


totters over to where her Louis Vuitton bag is resting on a chair.


 'What happens if you need to go to the loo?' I say, staring at her.


 'Or go back to his place?' says Lissy with a giggle. 


'It's only our second date! I'm not going to go back to his place!' 
Jemima says in horror. 


'That's not the way to –' she struggles for breath '– to get a rock 
on your finger.'


 'But what if you get carried away with desire for each other?'


 'What if he gropes you in the taxi?' 


'He's not like that,' says Jemima, with a roll of her eyes. 'He 
happens to be the First 



Assistant Undersecretary to the Secretary of the Treasury, actually 
.'


 I meet Lissy's eyes and I can't help it, I give a snort of laughter. 


'Emma, don't laugh,' says Lissy, deadpan. 'There's nothing wrong 
with being a secretary. 


He can always move up, get himself a few qualifications …' 


'Oh ha ha, very funny,' says Jemima crossly. 'You know, he'll be 
knighted one day. I don't 
think you'll be laughing then.' 


'Oh, I expect I will,' says Lissy. 'Even more so.' She suddenly 
focuses on Jemima, who is 
still standing by the chair, trying to reach her bag. 'Oh my God! 
You can't even pick up 
your bag, can you?' 


'I can!' says Jemima, making one last desperate effort to bend her 
body. 'Of course I can. 
There!' She manages to scoop up the strap on the end of one of 
her acrylic fingernails, 


and triumphantly swings it onto her shoulder. 'You see?'


 'What if he suggests dancing?' says Lissy slyly. 'What will you do 
then?' 


A look of total panic briefly crosses Jemima's face, then 
disappears. 



 'He won't,' she says scornfully. 'Englishmen never suggest 
dancing.' 

'Fair point.' Lissy grins. 'Have a good time.' 

As Jemima disappears out of the door, I sink down heavily onto 
the-sofa and reach for a 
magazine. I glance up at Lissy, but she's staring ahead with a 
preoccupied look on her 

face.

 'Conditional!' she says suddenly. 'Of course! How could I have 
been so stupid ?' 

She scrabbles around under the sofa, pulls out several old 
newspaper crosswords and 

starts searching through them. 

Honestly. As if being a top lawyer didn't use up enough brain 
power, Lissy spends her 
whole time doing crosswords and games of chess by 
correspondence, and special brainy 
puzzles which she gets from her geeky society of extra-clever 
people. (It's not called that, 
of course. It's called something like 'Mindset – for people who like 
to think'. Then at the 
bottom it casually mentions that you need an IQ of 600 in order to 
join.) 

And if she can't solve a clue, she doesn't just throw it out, saying 
'stupid puzzle' like I 
would. She saves it. Then about three months later, when we're 
watching EastEnders or 
something, she'll suddenly come up with the answer. And she's 
ecstatic! Just because she 
gets the last word in the box, or whatever. 


Lissy's my oldest friend, and I really love her. But sometimes I 
really do not understand 
her.

 'What's that?' I say, as she writes in the answer. 'Some crossword 
from 1993?'

 'Ha ha,' she says absently. 'So what are you doing this evening?' 
'I thought I'd have a quiet evening in,' I say, flicking through the 
magazine. 'In fact, I 

might go through my clothes,' I add, as my eyes fall on an article 
entitled 'Essential 
Wardrobe Upkeep'.

 'Do what?' 
'I thought I'd check them all for missing buttons and drooping 
hems,' I say, reading the 

article. 'And brush all my jackets with a clothes brush.'

 'Have you got a clothes brush?'

 'With a hairbrush then.'

 'Oh right.' She shrugs. 'Oh well. Because I was just wondering, do 

you want to go out?'

 'Ooh!' My magazine slithers to the floor. 'Where?' 
'Guess what I've got?' She raises her eyebrows tantalizingly, then 
fishes in her bag. Very 
slowly she pulls out a large, rusty keyring, to which a brand new 
Yale is attached.

 'What's that?' I begin, puzzledly – then suddenly realize. 'No!' 


 'Yes! I'm in!'

 'Oh my God Lissy!'

 'I know!' Lissy beams at me. 'Isn't it fab?' 

The key which Lissy is holding is the coolest key in the world. It 
opens the door to a 
private members' club in Clerkenwell, which is completely 
happening and impossible to 
get into. 


And Lissy got in! 
'Lissy, you're the coolest!' 
'No I'm not,' she says, looking pleased. 'It was Jasper at my 
chambers. He knows 


everyone on the committee.'


 'Well I don't care who it was. I'm so impressed!' 


I take the key from her and look at it in fascination, but there's 
nothing on it. No name, 
no address, no logo, no nothing. It looks a bit like the key to my 
dad's garden shed, I find 
myself thinking. But obviously way, way cooler, I add hastily. 


'So who do you think'll be there?' I look up. 'You know, apparently 
Madonna's a member. 
And Jude and Sadie! And that gorgeous new actor from 
EastEnders . Except everyone 
says he's gay really …'


 'Emma,' interrupts Lissy. 'You do know celebrities aren't 
guaranteed.' 
'I know!' I say, a little offended. 



Honestly. Who does Lissy think I am? I'm a cool and sophisticated 
Londoner. I don't get 

excited by stupid celebrities. I was just mentioning it, that's all. 

'In fact,' I add after a pause, 'it probably spoils the atmosphere if 
the place is stuffed full 
of famous people. I mean, can you think of anything worse than 
sitting at a table, trying 
to have a nice normal conversation, while all around you are 
movie stars and 
supermodels and … and pop stars …' 

There's a pause while we both think about this. 

'So,' says Lissy casually. 'We might as well go and get ready.'

 'Why not?' I say, equally casually. 

Not that it will take long. I mean, I'm only going to throw on a pair 
of jeans. And maybe 
quickly wash my hair, which I was going to do anyway. 

And maybe do a quick face-mask. 

An hour later Lissy appears at the door of my room, dressed in 
jeans, a tight black corset 
top and her Bertie heels which I happen to know always give her a 
blister. 

'What do you think?' she says, in the same casual voice. 'I mean, I 
haven't really made 
much effort—' 

'Neither have I,' I say, blowing on my second coat of nail polish. 'I 
mean, it's just a 


relaxed evening out. I'm hardly even bothering with makeup.' I 
look up and stare at Lissy. 
'Are those false eyelashes?' 


'No! I mean … yes. But you weren't supposed to notice. They're 
called natural look.' She 
goes over to the mirror and bats her eyelids at herself worriedly. 
'Are they really 
obvious?' 


'No!' I say reassuringly, and reach for my blusher brush. When I 
look up again, Lissy is 
staring at my shoulder.


 'What's that?' 


'What?' I say innocently, and touch the little diamante heart on 
my shoulder blade. 'Oh 
this . Yes, it just sticks on. I thought I'd just put it on for fun.' I 
reach for my halterneck 
top, tie it on, and slide my feet into my pointy suede boots. I got 
them in a Sue Ryder 
shop a year ago, and they're a bit scuffed up, but in the dark you 
can hardly tell. 


'Do you think we look too much?' says Lissy as I go and stand 
next to her in front of the 
mirror. 'What if they're all in jeans?'


 'We're in jeans!'


 'But what if they're in big thick jumpers and we look really 
stupid?' 


Lissy is always completely paranoid about what everyone else will 
be wearing. When it 
was her first chambers Christmas party and she didn't know 
whether 'black tie' meant 



long dresses or just sparkly tops, she made me come and stand 
outside the door with 
about six different outfits in carrier bags, so she could quickly 
change. (Of course the 
original dress she'd put on was fine. I told her it would be.) 

'They won't be wearing big thick jumpers,' I say. 'Come on, let's 
go.'

 'We can't!' Lissy looks at her watch. 'It's too early.'

 'Yes we can. We can be just having a quick drink on our way to 
another celebrity party.'

 'Oh yes.' Lissy brightens. 'Cool. Let's go!' 

It takes us about fifteen minutes by bus to get from Islington to 
Clerkenwell. Lissy leads 
me down an empty road near to Smithfield Market, full of 
warehouses and empty office 
buildings. Then we turn a corner, and then another corner, until 
we're standing in a small 
alley. 

'Right,' says Lissy, standing under a street lamp and consulting a 
tiny scrap of paper. 'It's 
all hidden away somewhere.'

 'Isn't there a sign?' 

'No. The whole point is, no-one except members knows where it 
is. You have to knock 
on the right door and ask for Alexander.'

 'Who's Alexander?'

 'Dunno.' Lissy shrugs. 'It's their secret code.' 


Secret code! This gets cooler and cooler. As Lissy squints at an 
intercom set in the wall, I 
look idly around. This street is completely nondescript. In fact, it's 
pretty shabby. Just 
rows of identical doors and blanked-out windows and barely any 
sign of life. But just 
think. Hidden behind this grim facade is the whole of London 
celebrity society! 

'Hi, is Alexander there?' says Lissy nervously. There's a moment's 
silence, then as if by 
magic, the door clicks open.

 Oh my God. This is like Aladdin or something. Looking 
apprehensively at each other, we 
make our way down a lit corridor pulsing with music. We come to 
a flat, stainless steel 
door, and Lissy reaches for her key. As it opens, I quickly tug at 
my top and casually 
rearrange my hair.

 'OK,' Lissy mutters. 'Don't look. Don't stare. Just be cool.' 

'All right,' I mutter back, and follow Lissy into the club. As she 
shows her membership 
card to a girl at a desk, I stare studiously at her back, and as we 
walk through into a large, 
dim room, I keep my eyes fixed on the beige carpet. I'm not going 
to gawp at the 
celebrities. I'm not going to stare. I'm not going to—

 'Lookout!' 

Oops. I was so busy gazing at the floor, I blundered right into 
Lissy. 
'Sorry,' I whisper. 'Where shall we sit down?' 
I don't dare look around the room for a free seat, in case I see 
Madonna and she thinks 


I'm staring at her. 'Here,' says Lissy, gesturing to a wooden table 
with an odd little jerk of 
her head. 

Somehow we manage to sit down, stow our bags and pick up the 
lists of cocktails, all the 
time rigidly staring at each other.

 'Have you seen anyone?' I murmur.

 'No. Have you?' 

'No.' I open the cocktail menu and run my eyes down it. God this 
is a strain. My eyes are 
starting to ache. I want to look around. I want to see the place.

 'Lissy,' I hiss. 'I'm going to have a look round.' 

'Really?' Lissy stares at me anxiously, as though I'm Steve 
McQueen announcing he's 
going over the wire. 'Well … OK. But be careful. Be discreet .'

 'I will. I'll be fine!' 

OK. Here we go. A quick, non-gawping sweep. I lean back in my 
chair, take a deep 
breath, then allow my eyes to skim swiftly round the room, taking 
in as much detail as 
quickly as I can. Low lighting … lots of purple sofas and chairs … a 
couple of guys in Tshirts 
… three girls in jeans and jumpers, God, Lissy's going to 
freak … a couple 
whispering to each other … a guy with a beard reading Private 
Eye … and that's it. 

That can't be it. 


This can't be right. Where's Robbie Williams? Where's Jude and 
Sadie? Where are all the 
supermodels?

 'Who did you see?' hisses Lissy, still staring at the cocktail menu. 
'I'm not sure,' I whisper uncertainly. 'Maybe that guy with the 
beard is some famous 

actor?' 
Casually, Lissy turns in her seat and gives him a look. 
'I don't think so,' she says at last, turning back. 

'Well, how about the guy in the grey T-shirt?' I say, gesturing 
hopefully. 'Is he in a boy 
band or something?'

 'Mmm … no. I don't think so.' 

There's silence as we look at each other. 
'Is anyone famous here?' I say at last. 
'Celebrities aren't guaranteed!' says Lissy defensively. 
'I know! But you'd think—' 

'Hi!' A voice interrupts us and we both look round, to see two of 
the girls in jeans 
approaching our table. One of them is smiling at me nervously. 'I 
hope you don't mind, 
but my friends and I were just wondering – aren't you that new 
one in Hollyoaks ?'

 Oh, for God's sake. 


Anyway. I don't care. We didn't come here to see tacky celebrities 
taking coke and 
showing off. We just came to have a nice quiet drink together. 


We order strawberry daiquiris and some luxury mixed nuts (.4.50, 
for a small bowl. 
Don't even ask how much the drinks cost). And I have to admit, I 
feel a bit more relaxed 


now I know there's no-one famous to impress.


 'How's your work going?' I ask, as I sip my drink.


 'Oh, it's fine,' says Lissy with a vague shrug. 'I saw the Jersey 
Fraudster today.' 


The Jersey Fraudster is this client of Lissy's who keeps being 
charged with fraud and 
appealing and – because Lissy's so brilliant – getting let out. One 
minute he's wearing 
handcuffs, the next he's dressed in hand-made suits and taking 
her to lunch at the Ritz. 


'He tried to buy me a diamond brooch,' says Lissy, rolling her 
eyes. 'He had this Asprey's 
catalogue and he kept saying "That one's rather jolly." And I was 
like, "Humphrey, you're 
in prison! Concentrate!"' She shakes her head, takes a sip of her 
drink, and looks up. 'So 
… what about your man?' 


I know at once she means Jack, but I don't want to admit that's 
where my mind has leapt 
to, so I attempt a blank look and say, 'Who, Connor?'


 'No, you dope! Your stranger on the plane. The one who knows 
everything about you.' 



'Oh him .' I feel a flush coming to my cheeks, and look down at 
my embossed paper 
coaster. 


'Yes, him! Have you managed to avoid him?' 
'No,' I admit. 'He won't bloody leave me alone.' 
I break off as a waiter puts two fresh strawberry daiquiris on the 
table. When he's gone, 


Lissy gives me a close look.


 'Emma, do you fancy this guy?' 


'No, of course I don't fancy him,' I say hotly. 'He just … disconcerts 
me, that's all. It's a 


completely natural reaction. You'd be the same. Anyway, it's fine. 
I only have to get 
through until Friday. Then he'll be gone.' 


'And then you'll be moving in with Connor.' Lissy takes a sip of her 
daiquiri and leans 
forward. 'You know, I reckon he's going to ask you to marry him!' 


I feel a tiny lurch in my stomach, which is probably just my drink 
going down or 
something.


 'You're so lucky,' says Lissy wistfully. 'You know, he put up those 
shelves in my room the 
other day without even asking! How many men would do that?' 


'I know. He's just … great.' There's a pause, and I start to shred 
my paper coaster into 
little bits. 'I suppose the only tiny little thing would be that it's not 
that romantic any 
more.' 



'You can't expect it to be romantic for ever,' says Lissy. 'Things 
change. It's natural to 
become a bit more steady.' 

'Oh, I know that!' I say. 'We're two mature, sensible people, and 
we're having a loving, 
steady relationship! Which, you know, is just what I want out of 
life. Except …' I clear 
my throat awkwardly. 'We don't have sex that often any more …' 

'That's a common problem in long-term relationships,' says Lissy 
knowledgeably. 'You 
need to spice it up.'

 'With what?'

 'Have you tried handcuffs?'

 'No! Have you?' I stare at Lissy, riveted. 

'A long time ago,' she says with a dismissive shrug. 'They weren't 
all that … Um … why 
not try doing it somewhere different. Try doing it at work!' 

At work! Now, that's a good idea. Lissy is so clever.

 'OK!'I say. 'I'll try that!' 

I reach for my bag, get out a pen and write 'shag@work' on my 
hand, next to where I've 
written 'nb: darling'. 

Suddenly I'm filled with fresh enthusiasm. This is a brilliant plan. 
I'll shag Connor at 
work tomorrow, and it will be the best sex we've ever had, and 
the sparkle will come 
back, and we'll be madly in love again. Easy. And that will show 
Jack Harper. 


 No. This is nothing to do with Jack Harper. I don't know why that 
slipped out. 

There's only one tiny hitch to my scheme. Which is that it's not 
quite as easy to shag your 
boyfriend at work as you'd think. I hadn't quite appreciated before 
how open everything is 
in our office. And how many glass partitions there are. And how 
many people there are, 
walking around all the time. 

By eleven o'clock the next morning I still haven't managed to put 
a game plan together. I 
think I'd kind of pictured doing it behind a pot plant somewhere. 
But now I actually look 
at them, pot plants are tiny! And all frondy. There's no way Connor 
and I would be able to 
hide behind one, let alone risk any … movement. 

We can't do it in the loos. The girls' loos always have people in 
there, gossiping and 
putting on their makeup, and the men's loos … yuck. No way. 

We can't do it in Connor's office because the walls are completely 
made of glass and 
there aren't any blinds or anything. Plus people are always 
coming in and out of it to get 
stuff out of his filing cabinet. 

Oh, this is ridiculous. People having affairs must have sex at the 
office all the time. Is 
there some special secret shagging room I don't know about? 

I can't email Connor and ask for suggestions, because it's crucial 
that I surprise him. The 
shock element will be a huge turn-on and make it really sizzling 
hot and romantic. Plus 
there's a tiny risk that if I wrarn him he'll go all corporate on me 
and insist we take an 


hour's unpaid leave for it, or something. 

I'm just wondering whether we could creep out onto the fire 
escape, when Nick comes 
out of Paul's office saying something about margins. 

My head jerks up, and I feel a twinge of apprehension. There's 
something I've been 
trying to pluck up courage to say to him since that big meeting 
yesterday.

 'Hey Nick,' I say as he walks by my desk. 'Panther Bars are your 
product, aren't they?' 


 'If you can call them a product,' he says, rolling his eyes. 
'Are they going to axe them?' 
'More than likely.' 
'Well, listen,' I say quickly. 'Can I have a tiny bit of the marketing 
budget to put a coupon 


ad in a magazine?' Nick puts his hands on his hips and stares at 
me. 
'Do what?' 
'Put in an ad. It won't be very expensive, I promise. No-one will 
even notice.' 
'Where?' 
' Bowling Monthly,' I say, flushing slightly. 'My grandpa gets it.' 
'Bowling what ?' 
'Please! Look, you don't have to do anything. I'll sort it all out. It'll 
be a drop in the ocean 


compared to all the other ads you've run.' I stare at him 
entreatingly. 'Please … please …' 
'Oh all right!' he says impatiently. 'It's a dead duck, anyway.' 
'Thanks!' I beam at him, then as he walks off, reach for the phone 
and dial Grandpa's 


number. 
'Hi Grandpa!' I say as his answermachine beeps. 'I'm putting a 
money-off coupon ad for 
Panther Bars in Bowling Monthly . So tell all your friends! You can 
stock up cheaply. I'll 


see you soon, OK?' 
'Emma?' Grandpa's voice suddenly booms into my ear. 'I'm here! 
Just screening.' 
'Screening?' I echo, trying not to sound too surprised. Grandpa 
screens? 



'It's my new hobby. Have you not heard of it? You listen to your 
friends leaving 
messages and laugh at them. Most amusing. Now Emma, I was 
meaning to ring you. I 
saw a very alarming piece on the news yesterday, about 
muggings in central London.'

 Not this again. 
'Grandpa—' 
'Promise me you don't take London transport, Emma.' 
'I er … promise,' I say, crossing my fingers. 'Grandpa, I have to go, 
really. But I'll call 

again soon. Love you.'

 'Love you too, darling girl.' 

As I put the phone down I feel a tiny glow of satisfaction. That's 
one thing done.

 But what about Connor? 

'I'll just have to go and fish it out of the archives,' Caroline is 
saying across the office, 

and my head pops up. 

The archive room. Of course. Of course! No-one goes to the 
archive room unless they 
absolutely have to. It's way down in the basement, and it's all 
dark with no windows and 
loads of old books and magazines, and you end up grovelling on 
the floor to get what you 

want.

 It's perfect. 


 'I'll go,' I say, trying to sound nonchalant. 'If you like. What do you 
have to find?' 

'Would you?' says Caroline gratefully. 'Thanks, Emma. It's an old 
ad in some defunct 
magazine. This is the reference …' She hands me a piece of paper 
and I take it, feeling a 
thrill of excitement. As she walks away, I demurely pick up my 
phone and dial Connor's 
number. 

'Hey Connor,' I say in a low, husky voice. 'Meet me in the archive 
room. I've got 
something I want to show you.'

 'What?'

 'Just … be there,' I say, feeling like Sharon Stone.

 Ha! Office shag here I come!

 I hurry down the corridor as quickly as I can, but as I pass Admin 
I'm accosted by Wendy 
Smith, who wants to know if I'd like to play in the netball team. So 
I don't actually get to 
the basement for a few minutes, and when I open the door, 
Connor is standing there, 
looking at his watch. 

That's rather annoying. I'd planned to be waiting for him. I was 
going to be sitting on a 
pile of books which I would have quickly constructed, one leg 
crossed over the other and 
my skirt hitched up seductively.

 Oh well.

 'Hi,' I say, in the same husky voice. 


 'Hi,' says Connor, with a frown. 'Emma, what is this? I'm really 


busy this morning.' 
'I just wanted to see you. A lot of you.' I push the door shut with 
an abandoned gesture 
and trail my finger down his chest, like an aftershave commercial. 
'We never make love 


spontaneously any more.' 
'What?' Connor stares at me. 


'Come on.' I start unbuttoning his shirt with a sultry expression. 
'Let's do it. Right here, 
right now.' 
'Are you crazy ?' says Connor, pushing my fingers out of the way 


and hastily rebuttoning 


his shirt. 'Emma, we're in the office!' 
'So what? We're young, we're supposed to be in love …' I trail a 
hand even further down, 


and Connor's eyes widen. 
'Stop!' he hisses. 'Stop right now! Emma, are you drunk or 


something?' 
'I just want to have sex! Is that too much to ask?' 
'Is it too much to ask that we do it in bed like normal people?' 
'But we don't do it in bed! I mean, hardly ever!' 


There's a sharp silence. 
'Emma,' says Connor at last. 'This isn't the time or the place—' 



 'It is! It could be! This is how we get the spark back! Lissy said—'

 'You discussed our sex life with Lissy?' Connor looks aghast. 

'Obviously I didn't mention us ,' I say, hastily backtracking. 'We 
were just talking about 
… about couples in general, and she said doing it at work can be 
… sexy! Come on, 
Connor!' I shimmy close to him and pull one of his hands inside 
my bra. 'Don't you find 
this exciting? Just the thought that someone could be walking 
down the corridor right 
now …' I come to a halt as I hear a sound.

 I think someone is walking down the corridor right now. 
Oh shit. 
'I can hear footsteps!' Connor hisses, and pulls sharply away from 
me, but his hand stays exactly where it is, inside my bra. He 
stares at it in horror. 'I'm stuck! My bloody watch. 

It's snagged on your jumper!' He yanks at it. 'Fuck! I can't move 
my arm!'

 'Pull it!'

 'I am pulling it!' He looks frantically around. 'Where are some 
scissors?'

 'You're not cutting my jumper,' I say in horror. 

'Do you have any other suggestions?' He yanks sharply again, and 
I give a muffled 

shriek. 'Ow! Stop it! You'll ruin it!'

 'Oh I'll ruin it. And that's our major concern, is it?' 


 'I've always hated that stupid watch! If you'd just worn the one I 
gave you—' 
I break off. There are definitely footsteps approaching. They're 
nearly outside the door. 
'Fuck!' Connor's looking around distractedly. 'Fucking … fucking 

…' 
'Calm down! We'll just shuffle into the corner,' I hiss. 'Anyway, 
they might not even 


come in.' 
'This was a great idea, Emma,' he mutters furiously, as we do a 


hasty, awkward shuffle 
across the room together. 'Really great.' 
'Don't blame me!' I retort. 'I just wanted to get a bit of passion 


back into our—' I freeze 


as the door opens. 
No. God, no. 
I feel lightheaded with shock. 
Jack Harper is standing in the doorway, holding a big bundle of 


old magazines. 


Slowly, his eyes run over us, taking in Connor's angry expression, 
his hand inside my 
bra, my agonized face. 
'Mr Harper,' Connor begins to stutter. 'I'm so very, very sorry. 


We're … we didn't …' He 
clears his throat. 'Can I just say how mortified I am … we both are 
…' 


'I'm sure you are,' says Jack. His face is blank and unreadable; his 
voice as dry as ever. 

'Perhaps the pair of you could adjust your dress before returning 
to your desks?' 

The door closes behind him, and we stand motionless, like 
waxworks. 

'Look, can you just get your bloody hand out of my top?' I say at 
last, suddenly feeling irritated beyond belief with Connor. All my 
desire for sex has vanished. I feel completely 
livid with myself. And Connor. And everybody. 

TEN

 Jack Harper leaves today. 

Thank God. Thank God. Because I really couldn't cope with any 
more of … of him . If I 
can just keep my head down and avoid him until five o'clock and 
then run out of the door, 
then everything will be fine. Life will be back to normal and I will 
stop feeling as if my 
radar's been skewed by some invisible magnetic force. 

I don't know why I'm in such a jumpy, irritable mood. Because 
although I nearly died of 
embarrassment yesterday, things are pretty good. First of all, it 
doesn't look like' Connor 
and I are going to get the sack for having sex at work, which was 
my immediate fear. And 
secondly, my brilliant plan worked. As soon as we got back to our 
desks, Connor started 
sending me apologetic emails. And then last night we had sex. 
Twice. With scented 
candles. 


I think Connor must have read somewhere that girls like scented 
candles during sex. 
Maybe in Cosmo . Because every time he brings them out, he 
gives me this 'aren't I 
considerate?' look, and I have to say 'Oh! Scented candles! How 
lovely!' 

I mean, don't get me wrong. I don't mind scented candles. But it's 
not as if they actually 
do anything, is it? They just stand there and burn. And then at 
crucial moments I find 
myself thinking 'I hope the scented candle doesn't fall over', 
which is a bit distracting. 

Anyway. So we had sex. 

And tonight we're going to look at a flat together. It doesn't have 
a wooden floor or 
shutters – but it has a Jacuzzi in the bathroom, which is pretty 
cool. So my life is coming 
together nicely. I don't know why I'm feeling so pissed off. I don't 
know what's—

 I don't want to move in with Connor, says a tiny voice in my brain 
before I can stop it.

 No. That can't be right. That cannot possibly be right. Connor is 
perfect. Everyone knows 
that.

 But I don't want to— 

Shut up. We're the Perfect Couple. We have sex with scented 
candles. And we go for 
walks by the river. And we read the papers on Sundays with cups 
of coffee in pyjamas. 
That's what perfect couples do. 


 But— 
Stop it! 
I swallow hard. Connor is the one good thing in my life. If I didn't 
have Connor, what 
would I have? 
The phone rings on my desk, interrupting my thoughts, and I pick 
it up. 
'Hello, Emma?' comes a familiar dry voice. 'This is Jack Harper.' 
My heart gives an almighty leap of fright and I nearly spill my 
coffee. I haven't seen him 
since the hand-in-bra incident. And I really don't want to. 
I should never have answered my phone. 
In fact, I should never have come into work today. 
'Oh,' I say.'Er … hi!' 
'Would you mind coming up to my office for a moment?' 
'What … me?' I say nervously. 


 'Yes, you.'

 I clear my throat.

 'Should I … bring anything?'

 'No, just yourself.' 

He rings off, and I stare at my phone for a few moments, feeling a 
coldness in my spine. 


I should have known it was too good to be true. He's going to fire 
me after all. Gross … 
negligence … negligent grossness.


 I mean, it is pretty gross, getting caught with your boyfriend's 
hand in your top at work.


 OK. Well, there's nothing I can do. 


I take a deep breath, stand up and make my way up to the 
eleventh floor. There's a desk 
outside his door, but no secretary is sitting there, so I go straight 
up to the door and 
knock.


 'Come in.' 


Cautiously I push the door open. The room is huge and bright and 
panelled, and Jack is 



sitting at a circular table with six people gathered round on chairs. 
Six people I've never 

seen before, I suddenly realize. They're all holding pieces of paper 
and sipping water, and 
the atmosphere is a bit tense. 

Have they gathered to watch me being fired? Is this some kind of 
how-to-fire-people 
training? 

'Hello,' I say, trying to keep as composed as possible. But my face 
is hot and I know I 
look flustered. 

'Hi.' Jack's face crinkles in a smile. 'Emma … relax. There's 
nothing to worry about. I 
just wanted to ask you something.'

 'Oh, right,' I say, taken aback.

 OK, now I'm totally confused. What on earth could he have to ask 
me? 

Jack reaches for a piece of paper and holds it up so I can see it 
clearly. 'What do you 
think this is a picture of?' he says.

 Oh fucketty fuck. 

This is your worst nightmare. This is like when I went for that 
interview at Laines Bank 
and they showed me a squiggle and I said I thought it looked like 
a squiggle.

 Everyone is staring at me. I so want to get it right. If only I knew 
what right was. 


I stare at the picture, my heart beating quickly. It's a graphic of 
two round objects. Kind 
of irregular in shape. I have absolutely no idea what they're 
supposed to be. None at all. 
They look like … they look like …

 Suddenly I see it. 
'It's nuts! Two walnuts!' 
Jack explodes with laughter, and a couple of people give muffled 
giggles which they 

hastily stifle.

 'Well, I think that proves my point,' says Jack.

 'Aren't they walnuts?' I look helplessly around the table.

 'They're supposed to be ovaries,' says a man with rimless 
spectacles tightly. 

' Ovaries?' I stare at the page. 'Oh, right! Well, yes. Now you say 
it, I can definitely see a 

… an ovary-like …' 

'Walnuts.' Jack wipes his eyes. 

'I've explained, the ovaries are simply part of a range of symbolic 
representations of 
womanhood," says a thin guy defensively. 'Ovaries to represent 
fertility, an eye for 
wisdom, this tree to signify the earth mother …' 

'The point is, the images can be used across the entire range of 
products,' says a woman 
with black hair, leaning forward. 'The health drink, clothing, a 
fragrance …' 


'The target market responds well to abstract images,' adds 
Rimless Spectacle Guy. 'The 


research has shown—'


 'Emma.' Jack looks at me again. 'Would you buy a drink with 
ovaries on it?' 


'Er …' I clear my throat, aware of a couple of hostile faces pointing 
my way. 'Well … 


probably not.' 


A few people exchange glances.


 'This is so irrelevant,' someone is muttering. 


'Jack, three creative teams have been at work at this,' the blackhaired 
woman says 
earnestly. 'We can't start from scratch. We simply cannot.'


 Jack takes a swig of water from an Evian bottle, wipes his mouth 
and looks at her.


 'You know I came up with the slogan "Don't Pause" in two 
minutes on a bar napkin?'


 'Yes, we know,' mutters the guy in rimless spectacles. 


'We are not selling a drink with ovaries on it.' He exhales sharply, 
and runs a hand 
through his dishevelled hair. Then he pushes his chair back. 'OK, 
let's take a break. 
Emma, would you be kind enough to assist me in carrying some of 
these folders down to 
Sven's office?' 


God, I wonder what all that was about. But I don't quite dare ask. 
Jack marches me down 



the corridor, and into a lift and presses the ninth-floor button, 
without saying anything. 
After we've descended for about two seconds he presses the 
emergency button, and we 
grind to a halt. Then, finally, he looks at me.


 'Are you and I the only sane people in this building?' 
'Um …' 
'What happened to instincts?' His face is incredulous. 'No-one 
knows a good idea from a 


terrible one any more. Ovaries.' He shakes his head. 'Fucking 
ovaries !' 


I can't help it. He looks so outraged, and the way he says 
'ovaries!' suddenly seems the 
funniest thing in the world, and before I know it, I've started 
laughing. For an instant Jack 
looks astounded, and then his face kind of crumples, and 
suddenly he's laughing too. His 
nose screws right up when he laughs, just like a baby's and 
somehow this makes it seem 
about a million times funnier. 


Oh God. I really am laughing now. I'm giving tiny little snorts, and 
my ribs hurt, and 
every time I look at him I give another gurgle. My nose is running, 
and I haven't got a 
tissue … I'll have to blow my nose on the picture of the ovaries …


 'Emma, why are you with that guy?' 


'What?' I look up, still laughing, until I realize that Jack's stopped. 
He's looking at me, 


with an unreadable expression on his face.


 'Why are you with that guy?' he repeats. 



 My gurgles peter out, and I push my hair back off my face.

 'What do you mean?' I say, playing for time.

 'Connor Martin. He's not going to make you happy. He's not going 
to fulfil you.'


 I stare at him, feeling wrong-footed.


 'Who says?' 


'I've got to know Connor. I've sat in meetings with him. I've seen 
how his mind works. 


He's a nice guy – but you need more than a nice guy.' Jack gives 
me a long, shrewd look. 
'My guess is, you don't really want to move in with him. But you're 
afraid of ducking out.' 


I feel a swell of indignation. How dare he read my mind and get it 
so … so wrong . Of 
course I want to move in with Connor. 


'Actually, you're quite mistaken,' I say cuttingly. 'I'm looking 
forward to moving in with 
him. In fact … in fact, I was just sitting at my desk, thinking how I 
can't wait!'


 So there.


 Jack's shaking his head.


 'You need someone with a spark. Who excites you.' 


'I told you, I didn't mean what I said on the plane. Connor does 
excite me!' I give him a 
defiant look. 'I mean … when you saw us last, we were pretty 
passionate, weren't we?' 



'Oh, that.' Jack shrugs. 'I assumed that was a desperate attempt 
to spice up your love life.' 
I stare at him in fury. 
'That was not a desperate attempt to spice up my love life!' I 
almost spit at him. 'That 

was simply a … a spontaneous act of passion.'

 'Sorry,' says Jack mildly. 'My mistake.' 

'Anyway, why do you care?' I fold my arms. 'What does it matter 
to you whether I'm 

happy or not?' 

There's a sharp silence, and I find I'm breathing rather quickly. I 
meet his dark eyes, and 
quickly look away again. 

'I've asked myself that same question,' says Jack. He shrugs. 
'Maybe it's because we 
experienced that extraordinary plane ride together. Maybe it's 
because you're the only 

person in this whole company who hasn't put on some kind of 
phoney act for me.'

 I would have put on an act! I feel like retorting. If I'd had a 
choice! 

'I guess what I'm saying is … I feel as if you're a friend,' he says. 
'And I care what 


happens to my friends.' 
'Oh,' I say, and rub my nose. 

I'm about to say politely that he feels like a friend, too, when he 
adds, 'Plus anyone who 
recites Woody Allen films line for line has to be a loser.' 

I feel a surge of outrage on Connor's behalf. 

'You don't know anything about it!' I exclaim. 'You know, I wish I'd 
never sat next to you 
on that stupid plane! You go around, saying all these things to 

wind me up, behaving as 
though you know me better than anyone else—' 
'Maybe I do,' he says, his eyes glinting. 
'What?'

 'Maybe I do know you better than anyone else.' 
I stare back at him, feeling a breathless mixture of anger and 
exhilaration. I suddenly feel 
like we're playing tennis. Or dancing. 

'You do not know me better than anyone else!' I retort, in the 
most scathing tones I can 
muster. 
'I know you won't end up with Connor Martin.' 
'You don't know that.' 
'Yes I do.' 
'No you don't.' 


 'I do.'

 He's starting to laugh.

 'No you don't! If you want to know, I'll probably end up marrying 
Connor.'


 'Marry Connor?' says Jack, as though this is the funniest joke he's 
ever heard. 


'Yes! Why not? He's tall, and he's handsome, and he's kind and 
he's very … he's …' I'm 


floundering slightly. 'And anyway, this is my personal life. You're 
my boss, and you only 
met me last week, and frankly, this is none of your business!' 


Jack's laughter vanishes, and he looks as though I've slapped him. 
For a few moments he 
stares at me, saying nothing. Then he takes a step back and 
releases the lift button. 


'You're right,' he says in a completely different voice. 'Your 
personal life is none of my 
business. I overstepped the mark, and I apologize.'


 I feel a spasm of dismay.


 'I … I didn't mean—' 


'No. You're right.' He stares at the floor for a few moments, then 
looks up. 'So, I leave for 
the States tomorrow. It's been a very pleasant stay, and I'd like to 
thank you for all your 
help. Will I see you at the drinks party tonight?'


 'I … I don't know,' I say. 
The atmosphere has disintegrated. 



This is awful. It's horrible. I want to say something, I want to put it 
back to the way it 


was before, all easy and joking. But I can't find the words. 


We reach the ninth floor, and the doors open. 


'I think I can manage these from here,' Jack says. 'I really only 
asked you along for the 


company.' 


Awkwardly, I transfer the folders to his arms. 


'Well, Emma,' he says in the same formal voice. 'In case I don't 
see you later on … it was 


nice knowing you.' He meets my eyes and a glimmer of his old, 
warm expression returns. 
'I really mean that.'


 'You too,' I say, my throat tight. 


I don't want him to go. I don't want this to be the end. I feel like 
suggesting a quick 
drink. I feel like clinging to his hand and saying: Don't leave.


 God, what's wrong with me? 


'Have a good journey,' I manage as he shakes my hand. Then he 
turns on his heel and 
walks off down the corridor. 


I open my mouth a couple of times to call after him – but what 
would I say? There's 



nothing to say. By tomorrow morning he'll be on a plane back to 
his life. And I'll be left 
here in mine. 

I feel leaden for the rest of the day. Everyone else is talking about 
Jack Harper's leaving 
party, but I leave work half an hour early. I go straight home and 
make myself some hot 
chocolate, and I'm sitting on the sofa, staring into space when 
Connor lets himself into 
the flat. 

I look up as he walks into the room, and immediately I know 
something's different. Not 
with him. He hasn't changed a bit.

 But I have. I've changed.

 'Hi,' he says, and kisses me lightly on the head. 'Shall we go?'

 'Go?' 

'To look at the flat on Edith Road. We'll have to hurry if we're going 
to make it to the 
party. Oh, and my mother's given us a house-warming present. It 
was delivered to work.'

 He hands me a cardboard box, I pull out a glass teapot and look 
at it blankly. 

'You can keep the tea-leaves separate from the water. Mum says it 
really does make a 
better cup of tea—'

 'Connor,' I hear myself saying. 'I can't do this.' 


 'It's quite easy. You just have to lift the—' 
'No.' I shut my eyes, trying to gather some courage, then open 
them again. 'I can't do this 

. I can't move in with you.' 
'What?' Connor stares at me. 'Has something happened?' 

'Yes. No.' I swallow. 'I've been having doubts for a while. About us. 
And recently they've 
… they've been confirmed. If we carry on, I'll be a hypocrite. It's 

not fair to either of us.' 
' What?' Connor rubs his face. 'Emma, are you saying you want to 

… to …' 
'I want to break up,' I say, staring at the carpet. 
'You're joking.' 
'I'm not joking!' I say in sudden anguish. 'I'm not joking, OK?' 

'But … this is ridiculous! It's ridiculous!' Connor's pacing around 
the room like a rattled 
lion. Suddenly he looks at me. 


 'It's that plane journey.'

 'What?' I jump as though I've been scalded. 'What do you mean?'

 'You've been different ever since that plane ride down from 
Scotland.'

 'No I haven't!' 

'You have! You've been edgy, you've been tense …' Connor squats 
down in front of me 
and takes my hands. 'Emma, I think maybe you're still suffering 
some kind of trauma. 
You could have counselling.' 

'Connor, I don't need counselling!' I jerk my hands away. 'But 
maybe you're right. Maybe 
that plane ride did …' I swallow. 'Affect me. Maybe it brought my 
life into perspective 
and make me realize a few things. And one of the things I've 
realized is, we aren't right 
for each other.'

 Slowly Connor sinks down onto the carpet, his face bewildered.

 'But things have been great! We've been having lots of sex—'

 'I know.'

 'Is there someone else?' 


'No!' I say sharply. 'Of course there's no-one else!' I rub my finger 
roughly up and down 
the cover of the sofa. 


'This isn't you talking,' says Connor suddenly. 'It's just the mood 
you're in. I'll run you a 
nice hot bath, light some scented candles …'


 'Connor, please!' I cry. 'No more scented candles! You have to 
listen to me. And you have 
to believe me.' I look straight into his eyes. 'I want to break up.' 


'I don't believe you!' he says, shaking his head. 'I know you, 
Emma! You're not that kind 
of person. You wouldn't just throw away something like that. You 
wouldn't—'


 He stops in shock as, with no warning, I hurl the glass teapot to 
the floor. 


We both stare at it, stunned.


 'It was supposed to break,' I explain after a pause. 'And that was 
going to signify that yes, 
I would throw something away. If I knew it wasn't right for me.' 


'I think it has broken,' says Connor, picking it up and examining it. 
'At least, there's a 
hairline crack.'


 'There you go.'


 'We could still use it—'


 'No. We couldn't.'


 'We could get some Sellotape.' 



'But it would never work properly.' I clench my fists by my sides. 
'It just … wouldn't 
work.'


 'I see,' says Connor after a pause. 


And I think, finally, he does. 


'Well … I'll be off then,' he says at last. 'I'll phone the flat people 
and tell them that we're 
…' He stops, and roughly wipes his nose. 


'OK,' I say, in a voice which doesn't sound like mine. 'Can we keep 
it quiet from 
everyone at work?' I add. 'Just for the moment.'


 'Of course,' he says gruffly. 'I won't say anything.' 


He's halfway out of the door when abruptly he turns back, 
reaching in his pocket. 


'Emma, here are the tickets for the jazz festival,' he says, his 
voice cracking a little. 'You 
have them.'


 'What?' I stare at them in horror. 'No! Connor, you have them! 
They're yours!'


 ' Youhave them. I know how much you've been looking forward to 
hearing the Dennisson 
Quartet.' He pushes the brightly coloured tickets roughly into my 
hand and closes my 
fingers over them.


 'I … I …' I swallow. 'Connor … I just … I don't know what to say.' 


'We'll always have jazz,' says Connor in a choked-up voice, and 
closes the door behind 
him. 



ELEVEN 

So now I have no promotion and no boyfriend. And puffy eyes 
from crying. And 
everyone thinks I'm mad. 


'You're mad,' Jemima says, approximately every ten minutes. It's 
Saturday morning, and 
we're in our usual routine of dressing gowns, coffee, and nursing 
hangovers. Or in my 
case, break-ups. 'You do realize you had him?' She frowns at her 
toenail, which she's 
painting baby pink. 'I would have predicted a rock on your finger 
within six months.' 


'I thought you said I'd ruined all my chances by agreeing to move 
in with him,' I retort 
sulkily. 


'Well, in Connor's case I think you would have been safe and dry.' 
She shakes her head. 
'You're crazy.' 


'Do you think I'm crazy?' I say, turning to Lissy, who's sitting in 
the rocking chair with 


her arm round her knees, eating a piece of raisin toast. 'Be 
honest.'


 'Er … no,' says Lissy unconvincingly. 'Of course not!'


 'You do!'


 'It's just … you seemed like such a great couple.' 


'I know we did. I know we looked great on the outside.' I pause, 
trying to explain. 'But 



the truth is, I never felt I was being myself. It was always a bit like 
we were acting. You 
know. It didn't seem real , somehow.' 

'That's it ?' interrupts Jemima, staring at me as though I'm talking 
gibberish. 'That's the 
reason you broke up?' 

'It's a pretty good reason, don't you think?' says Lissy loyally.

 Jemima stares at us both blankly. 

'Of course not! Emma, if you'd just stuck it out and acted being 
the perfect couple for 
long enough, you would have become the perfect couple.'

 'But … but we wouldn't have been happy!' 

'You would have been the perfect couple,' says Jemima, as though 
explaining something 
to a very stupid child.' Obviously you would have been happy.' 
She cautiously stands up, 
her toes splayed by bits of pink foam, and starts making her way 
towards the door. 'And 
anyway. Everyone pretends in a relationship.'

 'No they don't! Or at least, they shouldn't.' 

'Of course they should! All this being honest with each other is 
totally overrated.' She 
gives us a knowing look. 'My mother's been married to my father 
for thirty years, and he 
still has no idea she isn't a natural blonde.'

 She disappears out of the room and I exchange glances with 
Lissy.

 'Do you think she's right?' I say. 


'No,' says Lissy uncertainly. 'Of course not! Relationships should 
be built on … on trust 
… and truth …' She pauses, and looks at me anxiously. 'Emma, 
you never told me you 
felt that way about Connor.'


 'I … didn't tell anyone.' 


This isn't quite true, I immediately realize. But I'm hardly going to 
tell my best friend 
that I told more to a complete stranger than to her, am I? 


'Well, I really wish you'd confided in me more,' says Lissy 
earnestly. 'Emma, let's make a 
new resolution. We'll tell each other everything from now on. We 
shouldn't have secrets 
from one another, anyway. We're best friends!' 


'It's a deal!' I say, with a sudden warm burst of emotion. 
Impulsively I lean forward and 
give her a hug. 


Lissy's so right. We should confide in each other. We shouldn't 
keep things from each 
other. I mean, we've known each other for over twenty years, for 
God's sake. 


'So, if we're telling each other everything …' Lissy takes a bite of 
raisin toast and gives 
me a sidelong look. 'Did your chucking Connor have anything to 
do with that man? The 
man from the plane?' 


I feel a tiny pang inside which I ignore by taking a sip of coffee. 
Did it have anything to do with him? No. No, it didn't. 
'No,' I say without looking up. 'Nothing.' 
We both watch the television screen for a few moments, where 
Kylie Minogue is being 



interviewed. 
'Oh, OK!' I say, suddenly remembering. 'So if we're asking each 
other questions … what 


were you really doing with that guy Jean-Paul in your room?' 
Lissy takes a breath. 
'And don't tell me you were looking at case notes,' I add. 'Because 
that wouldn't make all 


that thumping bumping noise.' 
'Oh!' says Lissy, looking cornered. 'OK. Well … we were …' She 
takes a gulp of coffee 


and avoids my gaze. 'We were … um … having sex.' 
'What?' I stare at her, disconcerted. 
'Yes. We were having sex. That's why I didn't want to tell you. I 
was embarrassed.' 
'You and Jean-Paul were having sex?' 
'Yes!' She clears her throat. 'We were having passionate … 
raunchy … animalistic sex.' 
There's something wrong here. 
'I don't believe you,' I say, giving her a long look. 'You weren't 
having sex.' 
The pink dots on Lissy's cheeks deepen in colour. 
'Yes we were!' 
'No you weren't! Lissy, what were you really doing?' 
'We were having sex, OK?' says Lissy agitatedly. 'He's my new 
boyfriend and … that's 


what we were doing! Now just leave me alone.' She gets up 
flusteredly, scattering raisin 
toast crumbs, and heads out of the room, tripping slightly on the 
rug. 



I stare after her, completely agog. 
Why is she lying? What on earth was she doing in there? What's 
more embarrassing than 

sex, for God's sake? I'm so intrigued I almost feel cheered up. 

To be honest, it's not the greatest weekend of my life. It's made 
even less great when the 
post arrives and I get a postcard from Mum and Dad from Le Spa 
Meridien, telling me 
what a fantastic time they're having. And even less great when I 
read my horoscope in the 
Mail , and it tells me I may just have made a big mistake. 

But by Monday morning, I'm feeling better. I haven't made a 
mistake. My new life starts 
today. I'm going to forget all about love and romance and 
concentrate on my career. 
Maybe I'll even look for a new job. 

As I come out of the tube station, I start to like this idea a lot. I'll 
apply for a job as 
Marketing Executive at Coca-Cola or somewhere. And I'll get it. 
And Paul will suddenly 
realize what a terrible mistake he made, not promoting me. And 
he'll ask me to stay, but 
I'll say, 'It's too late. You had your chance.' And then he'll beg, 
'Emma, is there anything I 
can do to change your mind?' And then I'll say— 

By the time I reach the office, Paul is grovelling on the floor as I sit 
nonchalantly on his 
desk, holding one knee (I also seem to be wearing a new trouser 
suit and Prada shoes) 
saying, 'You know, Paul, all you had to do was treat me with a 
little respect—' 

Shit, My eyes focus and I stop in my tracks, hand on the glass 
doors. There's a blond 


head in the foyer.


 Connor. A wave of panic overcomes me. I can't go in there. I can't 
do it. I can't— 


Then the head moves, and it's not Connor at all, it's Andrea from 
Accounts. I push the 
door open, feeling like a complete moron. God, I'm a mess. I have 
to get a grip of myself, 
because I will run into Connor before too long, and I'm just going 
to have to handle it. 


At least no-one at work knows yet, I think as I walk up the stairs. 
That would make 
things a million times harder. To have people coming up to me 
and saying—


 'Emma, I'm so sorry to hear about you and Connor!'


 'What?' My head jerks up in shock and I see a girl called Nancy 
coming towards me. 


'It was such a bolt from the blue! Of all the couples to split up, I 
would never have said 
you two. But it just shows, you never can tell …'


 I stare at her dazedly.


 'How … how do you know?' 


'Oh, everyone knows!' says Nancy. 'You know there was a little 
drinks do on Friday 
night? Well, Connor came to it, and he got quite drunk. And he 
told everyone. In fact, he 


made a little speech!'


 'He … he did what?' 



'It was quite touching, really. It was all about how the Panther 
Corporation felt like his 
family, and how he knew we would all support him through this 
difficult time. And you, 
of course,' she adds as an afterthought. 'Although since you were 
the one who broke it 
off, Connor's really the wounded party.' She leans forward 
confidentially. 'I have to say, a 
lot of the girls were saying you must have a screw loose!' 


I cannot believe this. Connor gave a speech about our break-up. 
After promising to keep 
it quiet. And now everyone's on his side.


 'Right,' I say at last. 'Well, I'd better get on—'


 'It just seems such a shame.' Nancy eyes me inquisitively. 'You 
two seemed so perfect!'


 'I know we did.' I force a smile. 'Anyway. See you later.'


 I head for the new coffee machine and am staring into space, 
trying to get my head round 
this, when a tremulous voice interrupts me.


 'Emma?' I look up and my heart sinks. It's Katie, staring at me as 
though I've grown three 
heads.


 'Oh hi!' I say, trying to sound breezy. 


'Is it true?' she whispers. 'Is it true? Because I won't believe it's 
true until I hear you say it 
with your own lips.'


 'Yes,' I say reluctantly. 'It's true. Connor and I have broken up.' 


'Oh God.' Katie's breathing becomes quicker and quicker. 'Oh my 
God. It's true. Oh my 



God, oh my God, I really can't cope with this …'

 Shit. She's hyperventilating. I grab an empty sugar bag and 
shove it over her mouth.

 'Katie, calm down!' I say helplessly. 'Breathe in … and out …' 

'I've been having panic attacks all weekend,' she manages, 
between breaths. 'I woke up 
last night in a cold sweat and I just thought to myself, if this is 
true, the world doesn't 
make sense any more. It simply makes no sense.'

 'Katie, we broke up! That's all. People break up all the time.' 
'But you and Connor weren't just people! You were the couple. I 
mean, if you can't make 

it, why should any of the rest of us bother even trying?' 
'Katie, we weren't the couple!' I say, trying to keep my temper. 
'We were a couple. And it 

went wrong, and … and these things happen.'

 'But—'

 'And to be honest, I'd rather not talk about it.' 

'Oh,' she says, and stares at me over the bag. 'Oh God, of course. 
Sorry, Emma. I didn't 

… I just … you know, it was such a shock!' 
'Come on, you haven't told me how your date with Phillip went 
yet,' I say firmly. 'Cheer 

me up with some good news.'

 Katie's breathing has gradually calmed, and she removes the bag 
from her face. 


 'Actually, it went really well,' she says. 'We're going to see each 
other again!'

 'Well there you go,' I say encouragingly. 
'He's so charming. And gentle. And we have the same sense of 
humour, and we like the 

same things.' A bashful smile spreads across Katie's face. 'In fact, 

he's lovely!' 
'He sounds wonderful! You see?' I squeeze her arm. 'You and 
Phillip will probably be a 
far better couple than Connor and I ever were. Do you want a 
coffee?' 

'No thanks, I've got to go. We've got a meeting with Jack Harper 
about personnel. See 
you.' 
'OK, see you,' I say absently. 

About five seconds later, my brain clicks into gear. 
'Wait a second.' I hurry down the corridor and grab her shoulder. 
'Did you just say Jack 


Harper?' 
'Yes.' 
'But … but he's gone. He left on Friday.' 
'No he didn't. He changed his mind.' 
I stare at her in disbelief. 


 'He changed his mind?' 


'Yes.' 
'So …' I swallow. 'So he's here?' 
'Of course he's here!' says Katie with a laugh. 'He's upstairs.' 
Suddenly my legs won't work properly. 
'Why …' I clear my throat, which has gone a little husky. 'Why did 
he change his mind?' 
'Who knows?' Katie shrugs. 'He's the boss. He can do what he 
likes, can't he? Mind you, 


he seems very down to earth.' She reaches into her pocket for a 
packet of gum, and offers 
it to me. 'He was really nice to Connor after he gave his little 
speech …' 
I feel a fresh jolt. 
'Jack Harper heard Connor's speech? About us breaking up?'


 'Yes! He was standing right next to him.' Katie unwraps her gum. 
'And afterwards he said 
something really nice like he could just imagine how Connor was 
feeling. Wasn't that 
sweet?'


 I need to sit down. I need to think. I need to … 
'Emma, are you OK?' says Katie in dismay. 'God, I'm so insensitive 
—' 
'No. It's fine,' I say dazedly. 'I'm fine. I'll see you later.' 
My mind is whirling as I walk into the marketing department. 
This is not the way it was supposed to happen. Jack Harper was 
supposed to be back in 


America. He was supposed to have no idea that I went straight 
home from our 
conversation and chucked Connor. 
I feel a smart of humiliation. He'll think I chucked Connor because 
of what he said to me 



in the lift, won't he? He'll think it was all because of him. Which it 
wasn't. It so wasn't . 
At least, not completely … 
Maybe that's why … 
No. It's ridiculous to think that his staying has anything to do with 
me. Ridiculous. I 
don't know why I'm so jumpy. 
As I near my desk, Artemis looks up from a copy of Marketing 
Week . 


'Oh Emma. I was sorry to hear about you and Connor.' 
'Thanks,' I say. 'But I don't really want to talk about it if that's OK.' 
'Fine,' says Artemis. 'Whatever. I was just being polite.' She looks 
at a Post-It on her 


desk. 'There's a message for you from Jack Harper, by the way.'


 'What?' I start.


 Shit. I didn't mean to sound so rattled. 'I mean, what is it?' I add 
more calmly. 


'Could you please take the –' She squints at the paper. '– the 
Leopold file to his office. He 


said you'd know what it was. But if you can't find it, it doesn't 
matter.'


 I stare at her, my heart hammering in my chest. 


The Leopold file. 



 It was just an excuse to get away from our desks … 
It's a secret code. He wants to see me. 
Oh my God. Oh my God. 
I have never been more excited and thrilled and petrified. All at 


once. 


I sit down and stare at my blank screen for a minute. Then with 
trembling fingers I take 
out a blank file. I wait until Artemis has turned away, then write 

'Leopold' on the side of 
it, trying to disguise my handwriting. 
Now what do I do? 
Well, it's obvious. I take it upstairs to his office. 
Unless … Oh fuck. Am I being really, really stupid here? Is there a 

real Leopold file? 
Hastily I go into the company database and do a quick search for 
'Leopold'. But nothing 
comes up.


 OK. I was right first time. 



I'm about to push my chair back when I suddenly have a paranoid 
thought. What if 
someone stops me and asks what the Leopold file is? Or what if I 
drop it on the floor and 
everyone sees it's empty? 


Quickly, I open a new document, invent a fancy letterhead and 
type a letter from a Mr 
Ernest P. Leopold to the Panther Corporation. I send it over to 
print, stroll over to the 
printer and whisk it out before anyone else can see what it is. Not 
that anyone else is 
remotely interested. 


'Right,' I say casually, tucking it into the cardboard folder. 'Well, I'll 
just take that file up, 
then …' 


Artemis doesn't even raise her head. 


As I walk along the corridors my stomach is churning, and I feel all 
prickly and selfconscious, 
as though everyone in the building must know what 
I'm doing. There's a lift 
waiting to go up, but I head for the stairs, firstly so I won't have to 
talk to anyone and 
secondly because my heart's beating so fast, I feel like I need to 
use up a bit of nervous 
energy. 


Why does Jack Harper want to see me? Because if it's to tell me 
he was right all along 
about Connor, then he can just … he can just bloody well … 
Suddenly I have a flashback 
to that awful atmosphere in the lift, and my stomach turns over. 
What if it's really 
awkward? What if he's angry with me? 



I don't have to go, I remind myself. He did give me an out. I could 
easily phone his 
secretary and say, 'Sorry, I couldn't find the Leopold file,' and that 
would be the end. 


For an instant I hesitate on the marble stairs, my fingers tightly 
clutching the cardboard. 
And then I carry on walking.


 ** * 


As I near the door of Jack's office I see that it's being guarded not 
by one of the 
secretaries, but by Sven. 


Oh God. I know Jack has said he's his oldest friend, but I can't help 
it. I do find this guy 
creepy.


 'Hi,' I say. 'Er … Mr Harper asked me to bring up the Leopold file.' 


Sven looks at me, and for an instant it's as if a little silent 
communication is passing 
between us. He knows, doesn't he? He probably uses the Leopold 
file code himself. He 
picks up his phone and after a moment says, 'Jack, Emma 
Corrigan here with the Leopold 
file.' Then he puts down the phone, and without smiling, says, 'Go 
straight in.' 


I walk in, feeling prickly with self-consciousness. The room is huge 
and panelled, and 
Jack's sitting behind a big wooden desk. When he looks up, his 
eyes are warm and 
friendly, and I feel myself relax just the teeniest bit. 



 'Hello,' he says'. 
'Hello,' I reply, and there's a short silence. 
'So, um, here's the Leopold file,' I say, and hand him the 
cardboard folder. 
'The Leopold file.' He laughs. 'Very good.' Then he opens it and 
looks at the sheet of 


paper in surprise. 'What's this?'


 'It's a … it's a letter from Mr Leopold of Leopold and Company.' 


'You composed a letter from Mr Leopold?' He sounds astonished, 
and suddenly I feel 


really stupid. 


'Just in case I dropped the file on the floor and someone saw,' I 
mumble. 'I thought I'd 
just quickly make something up. It's not important.' I try to take it 
back, but Jack moves it 
out of my reach. 


'"From the office of Ernest P. Leopold",' he reads aloud, and his 
face crinkles in delight. 
'I see he wishes to order 6,000 cases of Panther Cola. Quite a 
customer, this Leopold.' 


'It's for a corporate event,' I explain. 'They normally use Pepsi, but 
recently one of their 
employees tasted Panther Cola, and it was so good …' 


'They simply had to switch,' finishes Jack. '"May I add that I am 
delighted with all 



aspects of your company, and have taken to wearing a Panther 
jogging suit, which is 
quite the most comfortable sportswear I have ever known."' He 
stares at the letter, then 
looks up with a smile. To my surprise, his eyes are shining slightly. 
'You know, Pete 


would have adored this.'


 'Pete Laidler?' I say hesitantly. 


'Yup. It was Pete who came up with the whole Leopold file 
manoeuvre. This was the 


kind of stuff he did all the time.' He taps the letter. 'Can I keep it?'


 'Of course,' I say, a little taken aback.


 He folds it up and puts it in his pocket, and for a few moments 
there's silence. 


'So,' says Jack at last. He raises his head and looks at me with an 
unreadable expression. 


'You broke up with Connor.'


 My stomach gives a flip. I don't know what to say.


 'So.' I lift my chin defiantly. 'You decided to stay.' 


'Yes, well …' He stretches out his fingers and studies them briefly. 
'I thought I might take 
a closer look at some of the European subsidiaries.' He looks up. 
'How about you?'


 He wants me to say I chucked Connor because of him, doesn't 
he? Well, I'm not going to. 
No way. 



 'Same reason.' I nod. 'European subsidiaries.' 
Jack's mouth twitches reluctantly into a smile. 
'I see. And are you … OK?' 

'I'm fine. Actually, I'm enjoying the freedom of being single again.' 
I gesture widely with 
my arms. 'You know, the liberation, the flexibility …'


 'That's great. Well then, maybe this isn't a good time to …' He 
stops.


 'To what?' I say, a little too quickly. 
'I know you must be hurting right now,' he says carefully. 'But I 
was wondering.' He 
pauses for what seems like for ever, and I can feel my heart 
thumping hard against my 
ribs. 'Would you like to have dinner some time?'


 He's asked me out. He's asked me out. 
I almost can't move my mouth. 
'Yes,' I say at last. 'Yes, that would be lovely.' 


'Great!' He pauses. 'The only thing is, my life is kind of 


complicated right now. And what 
with our office situation …' He spreads his hands. 'It might be an 
idea to keep this to 
ourselves.'

 'Oh, I completely agree,' I say quickly. 'We should be discreet.' 
'So shall we say … how about tomorrow night? Would that suit 
you?' 


 'Tomorrow night would be perfect.'

 'I'll come and pick you up. If you email me your address. Eight 
o'clock?'

 'Eight it is!' 

As I leave Jack's office, Sven glances up and raises his eyebrows, 
but I don't say 
anything. I head back to the marketing department, trying as hard 
as I can to keep my 
face dispassionate and calm. But excitement is bubbling away in 
my stomach, and a huge smile keeps licking over my face. 

Oh my God. Oh my God. I'm going out to dinner with Jack Harper. I 
just … I can't 
believe— 

Oh, who am I kidding? I knew this was going to happen. As soon 
as I heard he hadn't 

gone to America. I knew. 

TWELVE

 I have never seen Jemima look quite so appalled. 

'He knows all your secrets ?' She's looking at me as though I've 
just proudly informed 

her I'm going out with a mass-murderer. 'What on earth do you 
mean?'

 'I sat next to him on a plane, and I told him everything about 
myself.' 

I frown at my reflection in the mirror and tweak out another 
eyebrow hair. It's seven 


o'clock, I've had my bath, I've blow-dried my hair and now I'm on 
my makeup. 
'And now he's asked her out,' says Lissy, hugging her knees. 'Isn't 
it romantic?' 
'You are joking, aren't you?' says Jemima, looking aghast. 'Tell me 
this is a joke.' 
'Of course I'm not joking! What's the problem?' 
'You're going out with a man who knows everything about you.'

 'Yes.' 
'And you're asking me what's the problem ?' Her voice rises 
incredulously. 'Are you 

crazy ?' 
'Of course I'm not crazy!' 

'I knew you fancied him,' says Lissy for about the millionth time. 'I 
knew it. Right from 
the moment you started talking about him.' She looks at my 

reflection. 'I'd leave that right 
eyebrow alone now.'

 'Really?' I peer at my face. 
'Emma, you don't tell men all about yourself! You have to keep 
something back! 
Mummy always told me, you should never let a man see your 
feelings or the contents of 
your handbag.'

 'Well, too late,' I say, slightly defiantly. 'He's seen it all.' 


'Then it's never going to work,' says Jemima. 'He'll never respect 
you.' 
'Yes he will.' 
'Emma,' says Jemima, almost pityingly. 'Don't you understand? 
You've already lost.' 
'I haven't lost !' 
Sometimes I think Jemima sees men not as people, but as alien 
robots, who must be 


conquered by any means possible. 


'You're not being very helpful, Jemima,' puts in Lissy. 'Come on. 
You've been on loads of 
dates with rich businessmen. You must have some good advice!' 


'All right.' Jemima sighs, and puts her bag down. 'It's a hopeless 
cause, but I'll do my 
best.' She starts ticking off on her fingers. 'The first thing is to 
look as well groomed as 


possible.'


 'Why do you think I'm plucking my eyebrows?' I say with a 
grimace.


 'Fine. OK, the next thing is, you can show an interest in his 
hobbies. What does he like?'


 'Dunno. Cars, I think. He has all these vintage cars on his ranch, 
apparently.' 


'Well then!' Jemima brightens. 'That's good. Pretend you like cars, 
suggest visiting a car 


show. You could flick through a car magazine on the way there.' 



'I can't,' I say, taking a glug from my pre-date relaxer glass of 
Harvey's Bristol Cream. 'I 
told him on the plane that I hate vintage cars.' 


'You did what ?' Jemima looks as if she wants to hit me. 'You told 
the man you're dating 
that you hate his favourite hobby?' 


'I didn't know I would be going on a date with him then, did I?' I 
say defensively, 
reaching for my foundation. 'And anyway, it's the truth. I hate 
vintage cars. The people in 
them always look so smug and pleased with themselves.' 


'What's the truth got to do with anything?' Jemima's voice rises in 
agitation. 'Emma, I'm 
sorry, I can't help you. This is a disaster. You're completely 
vulnerable. It's like going into 
battle in a nightie.' 


'Jemima, this is not a battle,' I retort, rolling my eyes. 'And it's not 
a chess game. It's 
dinner with a nice man!'


 'You're so cynical, Jemima,' chimes in Lissy. ' Ithink it's really 
romantic! They're going to 


have the perfect date, because there won't be any of that 
awkwardness. He knows what 
Emma likes. He knows what she's interested in. They're obviously 
already completely 
compatible.' 


'Well, I wash my hands of it,' says Jemima, still shaking her head. 
'What are you going to 
wear?' Her eyes narrow. 'Where's your outfit?' 


'My black dress,' I say innocently. 'And my strappy sandals.' I 
gesture to the back of the 



door, where my black dress is hanging up. 

Jemima's eyes narrow even further. She would have made a really 
good SS officer, I 
often think.

 'You're not going to borrow anything of mine.'

 'No!' I say indignantly. 'Honestly Jemima, I do have my own 
clothes, you know.'

 'Fine. Well. Have a good time.' 

Lissy and I wait until her footsteps have tapped down the corridor 
and the front door has 
slammed.

 'Right!' I say excitedly, but Lissy lifts a hand.

 'Wait.' 

We both sit completely still for a couple of minutes. Then we hear 
the sound of the front 
door being opened very quietly. 

'She's trying to catch us out,' hisses Lissy. 'Hi!' she says, raising 
her voice. 'Is anyone 
there?' 

'Oh hi,' says Jemima, appearing at the door of the room. 'I forgot 
my lip-gloss.' Her eyes 
do a quick sweep of the room.

 'I don't think you'll find it in here,' says Lissy innocently.

 'No. Well.' Her eyes travel suspiciously round the room again. 
'OK. Have a nice evening.' 


Again her footsteps tap down the corridor, and again the front 
door slams.


 'Right!' says Lissy. 'Let's go.' 


We unpeel the Sellotape from Jemima's door, and Lissy makes a 
little mark where it was. 
'Wait!' she says, as I'm about to push the door open. 'There's 
another one at the bottom.' 


'You should have been a spy,' I say, watching her carefully peel it 
off. 


'OK,' she says, her brow furrowed in concentration. 'There have to 
be some more booby 
traps.' 


'There's Sellotape on the wardrobe, too,' I say. 'And … Oh my 
God!' I point up. A glass 
of water is balanced on top of the wardrobe, ready to drench us if 
we open the door. 


'That cow!' says Lissy as I reach up for it. 'You know, I had to 
spend all evening fielding 


calls for her the other night, and she wasn't even grateful.'


 She waits until I've put the water down safely, then reaches for 
the door. 'Ready?'


 'Ready.' 


Lissy takes a deep breath, then opens the wardrobe door. 
Immediately, a loud, piercing 


siren begins to wail. 'Wee-oo wee-oo wee-oo …'


 'Shit!' she says, banging the door shut. 'Shit! How did she do 
that?' 



 'It's still going!' I say agitatedly. 'Make it stop. Make it stop!'

 'I don't know how to! You probably need a special code!' 

We're both jabbing frantically at the wardrobe, patting it, 
searching for an off-switch.

 'I can't see a button, or a switch or anything …' 

Abruptly the noise stops, and we stare at each other, panting 
slightly. 

'Actually,' says Lissy after a long pause. 'Actually, I think that 
might have been a car 

alarm outside.'

 'Oh,' I say. 'Oh right. Yes, maybe it was.' 

Looking a bit sheepish, Lissy reaches for the door again, and this 
time it's silent. 'OK,' 

she says. 'Here goes.'

 'Wow,' we breathe as one as she swings the door open. 

Jemima's wardrobe is like a treasure chest. It's like a Christmas 
stocking. It's new, shiny, 
gorgeous clothes, one after another, all neatly folded and hung on 
scented hangers, like in 
a shop. All the shoes in shoe-boxes with Polaroids on the front. All 
the belts hanging 
neatly from hooks. All the bags are neatly lined up on a shelf. It's 
a while since I 
borrowed anything from Jemima, and every single item seems to 
have changed since 
then. 


'She must spend about an hour a day keeping this tidy,' I say with 
a slight sigh, thinking 
of the jumble of my own wardrobe.


 'She does,' says Lissy. 'I've seen her.' 


Mind you, Lissy's wardrobe is even worse. It consists of a chair in 
her room, on which 
everything is heaped in a great big pile. She says putting stuff 
away makes her brain ache, 
and as long as it's clean, what does it matter? 


'So!' says Lissy with a grin, and reaches for a white sparkly dress. 
'What look would 
Madam like this evening?' 


I don't wear the white sparkly dress. But I do try it on. In fact, we 
both try on quite a lot 
of stuff, and then have to put it all back, very carefully. At one 
point another car alarm 
goes off outside, and we both jump in terror, then immediately 
pretend we weren't fazed. 


In the end, I go for this amazing new red top of Jemima's with 
slashed shoulders, over 
my own black DKNY chiffon trousers (.25 from the Notting Hill 
Housing Trust shop) 
and Jemima's silver high heels from Prada. And then, although I 
wasn't intending to, at 
the last minute I grab a little black Gucci bag.


 'You look amazing!' says Lissy as I do a twirl. 'Completely fab!'


 'Do I look too smart?'


 'Of course not! Come on, you're going out to dinner with a 
multimillionaire.' 



'Don't say that!' I exclaim, feeling nerves clutch my stomach. I 
look at my watch. It's 
almost eight o'clock. 


Oh God. Now I really am starting to feel nervous. In the fun of 
getting ready, I'd almost 
forgotten what it was all for. 


Keep calm, I tell myself. It's just dinner. That's all it is. Nothing 
special. Nothing out of 
the—' 


'Fuck!' Lissy's looking out of the window in the sitting room. 'Fuck! 
There's a great big 
car outside!' 


'What? Where?' I hurry to join her, my heart galloping. As I follow 
her gaze, I almost 
can't breathe. 


An enormous posh car is waiting outside our house. I mean, 
enormous . It's silver and 
shiny, and looks incredibly conspicuous in our tiny little street. In 
fact I can see some 
people looking curiously out of the house opposite. 


And all at once I'm really scared. What am I doing? This is a world 
I know nothing 
about. When we were sitting on those plane seats, Jack and I were 
just two people on an 
equal level. But look at us now. Look at the world he lives in – and 
look at the world I 
live in.


 'Lissy,' I say in a tiny voice. 'I don't want to go.' 
'Yes you do!' says Lissy – but I can see, she's just as freaked out 
as me. 
The buzzer goes, and we jump. 
I feel like I might throw up. 



OK. OK. Here I go. 
'Hi,' I say into the intercom. 'I'll … I'll be right down.' I put the 
phone down and look at 


Lissy. 
'Well,' I say in a trembling voice. 'This is it!' 
'Emma.' Lissy grabs my hands. 'Before you go. Don't take any 
notice of what Jemima 


said. Just have a lovely time.' She hugs me tightly. 'Call me if you 
get a chance.' 
'I will.' 
I take one last look at myself in the mirror, then open the door 
and make my way down 


the stairs. 
I open the door, and Jack's standing there, wearing a jacket and 
tie. He smiles at me, and 
all my fears fly away like butterflies. Jemima's wrong. This isn't 
me against him. This is 


me with him. 
'Hi,' he says, smiling warmly. 'You look very nice.' 
'Thanks.' 
I reach for the door handle, but a man in a peaked cap rushes 
forward to open it for me. 
'Silly me!' I say nervously. 
I can't quite believe I'm getting into this car. Me. Emma Corrigan. I 
feel like a princess. I 


feel like a movie star. 
I sit down on the plushy seat, trying not to think how different this 
is from any car I've 
ever been in, ever. 


'Are you OK?' says Jack. 



'Yes! I'm fine!' My voice is a nervous squeak. 
'Emma,' says Jack. 'We're going to have fun. I promise. Did you 
have your pre-date 

sweet sherry?' 
How did he know— 
Oh yes. I told him on the plane. 
'Yes, I did actually,' I admit. 

'Would you like some more?' He opens the bar and I see a bottle 
of Harvey's Bristol 
Cream sitting on a silver platter.


 'Did you get that especially for me?' I say in disbelief. 
'No, it's my favourite tipple.' His expression is so deadpan, I can't 
help laughing. 'I'll join 


you,' he says, as he hands me a glass. 'I've never tasted this 
before.' He pours himself a 
deep measure, takes a sip, and splutters. 'Are you serious?'


 'It's yummy! It tastes like Christmas!' 
'It tastes like …' He shakes his head. 'I don't even want to tell you 


what it tastes like. I'll 
stick to whisky if you don't mind.' 
'OK,' I say with a shrug. 'But you're missing out.' I take another sip 


and grin happily at 
him. I'm completely relaxed already. 
This is going to be the perfect date. 



THIRTEEN 

We arrive at a restaurant in Mayfair which I've never been to 
before. In fact I'm not even 
sure I've been to Mayfair before. It's so completely posh, why ever 
would I? 


'It's a kind of private place,' Jack murmurs as we walk through a 
pillared courtyard. 'Not 
many people know about it.' 


'Mr Harper. Miss Corrigan,' says a man in a Nehru suit, appearing 
out of nowhere. 
'Please come this way.' 


Wow! They know my name! 


We glide past more pillars into an ornate room in which about 
three other couples are 
seated. There's a couple to our right, and as we walk past, a 
middle-aged woman with 
platinum hair and a gold jacket catches my eye.


 'Well, hello!' she says. 'Rachel!' 
'What?' I look around, bewildered. Is she looking at me? 
She gets up from her seat and, lurching slightly, comes and gives 
me a kiss. 'How are 


you, darling? We haven't seen you for ages!' 
OK, you can smell the alcohol from five yards away. And as I 
glance over at her dinner 


partner, he looks just as bad. 



 'I think you've made a mistake,' I say politely. 'I'm not Rachel.' 

'Oh!' The woman stares at me for a moment. Then she glances at 
Jack and her face snaps 
in understanding. 'Oh! Oh, I see. Of course you're not.' She gives 

me a little wink.

 'No!' I say in horror. 'You don't understand. I'm really not Rachel. 
I'm Emma.' 
'Emma. Of course!' She nods conspiratorially. 'Well, have a 

wonderful dinner! And call 
me some time.' 
As she stumbles back to her chair, Jack gives me a quizzical look.


 'Is there something you want to tell me?' 


'Yes,' I say. 'That woman is extremely drunk.' As I meet his gaze, I 
can't help giving a 
tiny giggle, and his mouth twitches.

 'So, shall we sit down? Or do you have any more long-lost friends 
you'd like to greet?' 


 I look around the room consideringly.

 'No, I think that's probably it.' 

'If you're sure. Take your time. You're sure that elderly gentleman 
over there isn't your 

grandfather?'

 'I don't think so …' 

'Also, you should know that pseudonyms are fine by me,' Jack 
adds. 'I myself often go 

by the name of Egbert.' 
I give a snort of laughter and hastily stifle it. This is a posh 
restaurant. People are already 

looking at us. 

We're shown to a table in the corner, by the fire. A waiter helps 
me into my chair and 
fluffs a napkin over my knee, while another pours out some water, 
and yet another offers 
me a bread roll. Exactly the same is happening on Jack's side of 
the table. We have six 
people dancing attendance on us! I want to catch Jack's eye and 
laugh, but he looks 
unconcerned, as if this is perfectly normal. 


Perhaps it is normal for him, it strikes me. Oh God. Perhaps he has 
a butler who makes 

him tea and irons his newspaper every day.

 But what if he does? I mustn't let any of this faze me. 

'So,' I say, as all the waiting staff melt away. 'What shall we have 
to drink?' I've already 
eyed up the drink which that woman in gold has got. It's pink and 
has slices of 
watermelon decorating the glass, and looks absolutely delicious. 

'Already taken care of,' says Jack with a smile, as one of the 
waiters brings over a bottle 
of champagne, pops it open and starts pouring. 'I remember you 
telling me on the plane, 
your perfect date would start off with a bottle of champagne 
appearing at your table as if 
by magic.'

 'Oh,' I say, quelling a tiny feeling of disappointment. 'Er … yes! 
So I did.' 
'Cheers,' says Jack, and lightly clinks my glass. 
'Cheers.' I take a sip, and it's delicious champagne. It really is. All 
dry and delicious. 
I wonder what the watermelon drink tastes like. 
Stop it. Champagne is perfect. Jack's right, this is the perfect start 
to a date. 
'The first time I ever had champagne was when I was six years old 
—' I begin. 
'At your Aunt Sue's,' says Jack with a smile. 'You took all your 
clothes off and threw 

them in the pond.'

 'Oh right,' I say, halted mid-track. 'Yes, I've told you, haven't I?' 


So I won't bore him with that anecdote again. I sip my champagne 
and quickly try to 

think of something else to say. Something that he doesn't already 
know.

 Isthere anything? 

'I've chosen a very special meal, which I think you'll like,' says 
Jack, with a smile. 'All 

pre-ordered, just for you.' 

'Gosh!' I say, taken aback. 'How … wonderful.' 
A meal specially pre-ordered for me! Wow. That's incredible. 
Except … choosing your food is half the fun of eating out, isn't it? 


It's almost my 
favourite bit. 
Anyway. It doesn't matter. It'll be perfect. It is perfect.


 OK. Let's start a conversation.


 'So what do you like doing in your spare time?' I ask, and Jack 
gives a shrug.


 'I hang out. I watch baseball. I fix my cars …'


 'You have a collection of vintage cars! That's right. Wow. I really 
… um …' 



 'You hate vintage cars.' He smiles. 'I remember.' 
Damn. I was hoping he might have forgotten. 
'I don't hate the cars themselves,' I say quickly. 'I hate the people 


who … who …'


 Shit. That didn't quite come out right. I take a quick gulp of 
champagne, but it goes down 
the wrong way and I start coughing. Oh God, I'm really 

spluttering. My eyes are weeping. 
And now the other six people in the room have all turned to stare. 
'Are you OK?' says Jack in alarm. 'Have some water. You like 
Evian, right?' 
'Er … yes. Thanks.' 

Oh, bloody hell. I hate to admit that Jemima could be right about 
anything. But it would 
have been a lot easier if I could just have said brightly, 'Oh, I 

adore vintage cars!' 
Anyway. Never mind. 
As I'm gulping my water, a plate of roasted peppers somehow 


materializes in front of 
me. 
'Wow!' I say in delight. 'I love roasted peppers.' 
'I remembered.' Jack looks rather proud of himself. 'You said on 
the plane that your 


favourite food was roasted peppers.' 


'Did I?' I stare at him, a bit surprised. 
Gosh. I don't remember that. I mean, I like roasted peppers, but I 
wouldn't have said— 
'So I called the restaurant and had them make it specially for you. 
I can't eat peppers,' 


Jack adds, as a plate of scallops appears in front of him, 
'otherwise I would join you.'


 I gape at his plate. Oh my God. Those scallops look amazing. I 
adore scallops.


 'Bon appetit!' says Jack cheerfully.


 'Er … yes! Bon appetit.' 


I take a bite of roasted pepper. It's delicious. And it was very 
thoughtful of him to 
remember. 


But I can't help eyeing up his scallops. They're making my mouth 
water. And look at that 
green sauce! God, I bet they're succulent and perfectly cooked …


 'Would you like a bite?' says Jack, following my gaze. 


'No!' I say, jumping. 'No thanks. These peppers are absolutely – 
perfect!' I beam at him 
and take another huge bite.


 Suddenly Jack claps a hand on his pocket. 


'My mobile,' he says..'Emma, would you mind if I took this? It 
could be something 
important.' 



 'Of course not,' I say. 'Go ahead.' 

When he's gone, I just can't help it. I reach over, and spear one of 
his scallops. I close my 
eyes as I chew it, letting the flavour flood through my taste buds. 
That is just divine. That 
is the best food I've ever tasted in my life. I'm just wondering 
whether I could get away 
with eating a second one if I shifted the others around his plate a 
bit, when I smell a whiff 
of gin. The woman in the golden jacket is right by my ear.

 'Tell me quickly!' she says. 'What's going on?'

 'We're … having dinner,'

 'I can see that!' she says impatiently. 'But what about Jeremy? 
Does he have any idea?'

 Oh God.

 'Look,' I say helplessly. 'I'm not who you think I am—' 

'I can see that! I would never have thought you had this in you.' 
The woman squeezes my 
arm. 'Well, good for you. Have some fun, that's what I say! You 
took your wedding band 
off,' she adds, glancing at my left hand. 'Smart girl … oops! He's 
coming! I'd better go!' 

She lurches away again, as Jack sits back down in his place, and I 
lean forward, already 
half giggling. Jack is going to love this. 
'Guess what!' I say. 'I have a husband called Jeremy! My friend 
over there just came over 
and told me. So what do you reckon? Has Jeremy been having a 
dalliance too?' 
There's silence, and Jack looks up, a strained expression on his 
face. 


'I'm sorry?' he says. 
He wasn't listening to a word I was saying. 
I can't say the whole thing again. I'll just feel stupid. In fact, I 
already feel stupid. 'It 
doesn't matter,' I say, and force a smile. 
There's another silence and I cast around for something to say. 
'So, um, I have a 
confession to make,' I say, gesturing to his plate. 'I pinched one of 
your scallops.' 
I wait for him to pretend to be shocked, or angry. Or anything . 
'That's OK,' he says abstractedly, and begins to fork the rest of 
them into his mouth. 
I don't understand. What's happened? Where's the banter gone? 
He's completely 
changed. 
* * * 


By the time we've finished our tarragon chicken with rocket salad 
and chips, my entire 
body is tensed up with misery. This date is a disaster. A complete 
disaster. I've made 
every effort possible to chat, and joke and be funny. But Jack's 
taken two more calls, and 
the rest of the time he's been broody and distracted, and to be 
honest I might as well not 
be there. 


I feel like crying with disappointment. I just don't understand it. It 
was going so well. We 
were getting on so fantastically. What went wrong?


 'I'll just go and freshen up,' I say, as our main-course plates are 
removed, and Jack simply 
nods. 


The Ladies is more like a palace than a loo, with gold mirrors, 
plushy chairs and a 
woman in uniform to give you a towel. For a moment I feel a bit 
shy about phoning Lissy 



in front of her, but she must have seen it all before, mustn't she?

 'Hi,' I say, as Lissy picks up. 'It's me.'

 'Emma! How's it going?'

 'It's awful,' I say dolefully.

 'What do you mean?' she says in horror. 'How can it be awful? 
What's happened?' 

'That's the worst thing.' I slump into a chair. 'It all started off 
brilliantly. We were 
laughing and joking, and the restaurant's amazing, and he'd 
ordered this special menu just 
for me, all full of my favourite things …'

 I swallow hard. Now I put it like that, it does all sound pretty 
perfect. 
'It sounds wonderful,' says Lissy in astonishment. 'So how come—' 
'So then he had this call on his mobile.' I blow my nose. 'And ever 
since, he's barely said 

a word to me. He keeps disappearing off to take calls, and I'm left 
on my own, and when 
he comes back the conversation's all strained and stilted, and 
he's obviously only half 
paying attention.' 

'Maybe he's worried about something, but he doesn't want to 
burden you with it,' says 
Lissy after a pause.

 'That's true,' I say slowly. 'He does look pretty hassled.' 

'Maybe something awful has happened but he doesn't want to 
ruin the mood. Just try 


talking to him. Share his worries!' 
'OK,' I say, feeling more cheerful. 'OK, I'll try that. Thanks, Lissy.' 
I walk back to the table feeling slightly more positive. A waiter 
materializes to help me 
with my chair, and as I sit down, I give Jack the warmest, most 
sympathetic look I can 

muster. 'Jack, is everything OK?' 
He frowns. 
'Why do you say that?' 

'Well, you keep disappearing off. I just wondered if there was 
anything … you wanted to 
talk about.'

 'It's fine,' he says curtly. 'Thanks.' His tone is very much 'subject 
closed' but I'm not going 
to give up that easily. 

'Have you had some bad news?' 
'No.' 
'Is it … a business thing?' I persist. 'Or … or is it some kind of 

personal …' 
Jack looks up, a sudden flash of anger in his face. 
'I said, it's nothing. Quit it.' 
Great. That puts me in my place, doesn't it? 

'Would you both care for dessert?' A waiter's voice interrupts me, 
and I give him a 
strained smile. 



 'Actually, I don't think so.' 
I've had enough of this evening. I just want to get it over and go 


home. 
'Very well.' The waiter smiles at me. 'Any coffee?' 
'She does want dessert,' says Jack, over my head. 


What? What did he just say? The waiter looks at me hesitantly. 
'No I don't!' I say firmly. 
'Come on, Emma,' says Jack, and now his warm, teasing tone is 
back. 'You don't have to 
pretend with me. You told me on the plane, this is what you 
always say. You say you don't 
want a dessert, when really, you do.' 
'Well, this time, I really don't.' 
'It's specially created for you.' Jack leans forward. 'Haagen-Dazs, 

meringue, Bailey's 
sauce on the side …' 
Suddenly I feel completely patronized. How does he know what I 

want? Maybe I just 
want fruit. Maybe I want nothing. He has no idea about me. None 

at all. 
'I'm not hungry.' I push my chair back. 
'Emma, I know you. You want it, really—' 

'You don't know me!' I cry angrily, before I can stop myself. 'Jack, 
you may know a few 


random facts about me. But that doesn't mean you know me!' 
'What?' Jack stares at me. 
'If you knew me,' I say in a trembling voice, 'you would have 


realized that when I go out 
to dinner with someone, I like them to listen to what I'm saying. I 
like them to treat me 
with a bit of respect, and not tell me to "quit it" when all I'm doing 
is trying to make 

conversation …' 
Jack is staring at me in astonishment. 
'Emma, are you OK?' 
'No. I'm not OK! You've practically ignored me all evening.' 
'That's not fair.' 
'You have! You've been on autopilot. Ever since your mobile 

phone started going …' 

'Look.' Jack rubs his face. 'A few things are going on in my life at 
the moment, they're 
very important—'


 'Fine. Well, let them go on without me.' 


Tears are stinging my eyes as I stand up and reach for my bag. I 
so wanted this to be a 
perfect evening. I had such high hopes. I can't believe it's gone so 


wrong. 
'That's right! You tell him!' the woman in gold supportively calls 
from across the room. 



'You know, this girl's got a lovely husband of her own,' she 
exclaims to Jack. 'She doesn't 
need you!' 

'Thank you for dinner,' I say, staring fixedly at the tablecloth, as 
one of the waiters 
magically appears at my side with my coat. 
'Emma,' says Jack, getting to his feet in disbelief. 'You're not 
seriously going.' 
'l am.' 
'Give it another chance. Please. Stay and have some coffee. I 
promise I'll talk—' 
'I don't want any coffee,' I say, as the waiter helps me on with my 

coat. 
'Mint tea, then. Chocolates! I ordered you a box of Godiva truffles 
…' His tone is 
entreating, and just for an instant I waver. I love Godiva truffles.


 But no, I've made up my mind. 
'I don't care,' I gulp. 'I'm going. Thank you very much,' I add to the 
waiter. 'How did you 


know I wanted my coat?' 
'We make it our business to know,' says the waiter discreetly. 
'You see?' I say to Jack. ' Theyknow me.' 

There's an instant in which we stare at each other. 
'Fine,' says Jack at last, and gives a resigned shrug. 'Fine. Daniel 
will take you home. He 
should be waiting outside in the car.' 



 'I'm not going home in your car!' I say in horror. 'I'll make my own 
way, thanks.'

 'Emma. Don't be stupid.' 

'Goodbye. And thanks very much,' I add to the waiter. 'You were 
all very attentive and 
nice to me.'

 I hurry out of the restaurant to discover it's started to rain. And I 
don't have an umbrella. 

Well, I don't care. I'm going anyway. I stride along the streets, 
skidding slightly on the 
wet pavement, feeling raindrops mingling with tears on my face. I 
have no idea where I 
am. I don't even know where the nearest tube is, or where …

 Hang on. There's a bus stop. I look down the numbers and see 
one that goes to Islington. 

Well, fine. I'll take the bus home. And then I'll have a nice cup of 
hot chocolate. And 
maybe some icecream in front of the telly. 

It's one of those bus shelters with a roof and little seats, and I sit 
down, thanking God my 
hair won't get any wetter. I'm just staring blankly at a car 
advertisement, wondering what 
that Haagen-Dazs pudding tasted like and whether the meringue 
was the stiff white kind 

or that gorgeous chewy, caramel kind, when a big silver car purrs 
up at the pavement.

 I don't believe it.

 'Please,' says Jack, getting out. 'Let me take you home.' 


 'No,' I say, without turning my head. 
'You can't stay here in the rain.' 
'Yes I can. Some of us live in the real world, you know.' 


I turn away and pretend to be studying a poster about AIDS. The 
next moment Jack has 


arrived in the bus shelter. He sits down in the little seat next to 
mine and for a while we're 
both silent. 


'I know I was terrible company this evening,' he says eventually. 
'And I'm sorry. I'm also 
sorry I can't tell you anything about it. But my life is … 
complicated. And some bits of it 
are very delicate. Do you understand?' 


No, I want to say. No, I don't understand, when I've told you every 
single little thing 
about me.


 'I suppose,' I say, with a tiny shrug. 


The rain is beating down even harder, thundering on the roof of 
the shelter and creeping 
into my – Jemima's – silver sandals. God, I hope it won't stain 
them. 


'I'm sorry the evening was a disappointment to you,' says Jack, 
lifting his voice above the 
noise. 


'It wasn't,' I say, suddenly feeling bad. 'I just … I had such high 
hopes! I wanted to get to 
know you a bit, and I wanted to have fun … and for us to laugh … 
and I wanted one of 
those pink cocktails, not champagne …'


 Shit. Shit . That slipped out before I could stop it. 
'But … you like champagne!' says Jack, looking stunned. 'You told 
me. Your perfect date 


would start off with champagne.' 



 I can't quite meet his eye.

 'Yes, well. I didn't know about the pink cocktails then, did I?'

 Jack throws back his head and laughs. 

'Fair point. Very fair point. And I didn't even give you a choice, did 
I?' He shakes his 

head ruefully. 'You were probably sitting there thinking, damn this 
guy, can't he tell I 
want a pink cocktail?' 

'No!' I say at once, but my cheeks are turning crimson, and Jack is 
looking at me with 
such a comical expression that I want to hug him. 

'Oh Emma. I'm sorry.' He shakes his head. 'I wanted to get to 
know you too. And I 
wanted to have fun, too. It sounds like we both wanted the same 
things. And it's my fault 
we didn't get them.'

 'It's not your fault,' I mumble awkwardly. 

'This is not the way I planned for things to go.' He looks at me 
seriously. 'Will you give 
me another chance?' 

A big red double-decker bus rumbles up to the bus stop, and we 
both look up.

 'I've got to go,' I say, standing up. 'This is my bus.'

 'Emma, don't be silly. Come in the car.'

 'No. I'm going on the bus!' 


The automatic doors open, and I step onto the bus. I show my 
travelcard to the driver and 
he nods. 


'You're seriously considering riding on this thing?' says Jack, 
stepping on behind me. He 
peers dubiously at the usual motley collection of night bus riders. 
'Is this safe ?'


 'You sound like my grandpa! Of course it's safe. It goes to the end 
of my road.'


 'Hurry up!' says the driver impatiently to Jack. 'If you haven't got 
the money, get off.'


 'I have American Express,' says Jack, feeling in his pocket.


 'You can't pay a bus fare with American Express!' I say, rolling my 
eyes. 'Don't you know 
anything? And anyway.' I stare at my travelcard for a few seconds. 
'I think I'd rather be on 
my own, if you don't mind.' 


'I see,' says Jack in a different voice. 'I guess I'd better get off,' he 
says to the driver. Then 
he looks at me. 'You haven't answered me. Can we try again? 
Tomorrow night. And this 
time we'll do whatever you want. You call the shots.' 


'OK.' I'm trying to give a noncommittal shrug, but as I meet his 
eye I find myself 
smiling, too.


 'Eight o'clock again?'


 'Eight o'clock. And leave the car behind,' I add firmly. 'We'll do 
things my way.'


 'Great! I look forward to it. Goodnight, Emma.' 



 'Goodnight.' 

As he turns to get off, I climb up the stairs to the top deck of the 
bus. I head for the front 
seat, the place I always used to sit when I was a child, and stare 
out at the dark, rainy, 
London night. If I stare for long enough, the street lights become 
blurred like a 
kaleidoscope. Like fairyland. 

Swooshing round my mind are images of the woman in gold, the 
pink cocktail, Jack's 
face as I said I was leaving, the waiter bringing me my coat, Jack's 
car arriving at the bus 
stop … I can't quite work out what I think. All I can do is sit there, 
staring out, aware of 
familiar, comforting sounds around me. The old-fashioned grind 
and roar of the bus 
engine. The noise of the doors swishing open and shut. The sharp 
ring of the request bell. 
People thumping up the stairs and thumping back down again. 

I can feel the bus lurch as we turn corners, but I'm barely aware of 
where we're going. 
Until after a while, familiar sights outside start to impinge on my 
consciousness, and I 
realize we're nearly at my street. I gather myself, reach for my 
bag, and totter along to the 
top of the stairs. 

Suddenly the bus makes a sharp swing left, and I grab for a seat 
handle, trying to steady 
myself. Why are we turning left? I look out of the window, thinking 
I'll be really pissed 
off if I end up having to walk, and blink in astonishment.

 Surely we're not— 
Surely this can't be— 


But we are. I peer down through the window, dumbfounded. We're 
in my tiny little road. 
And now we've stopped outside my house. 
I hurry down the stairs, nearly breaking my ankle, and stare at the 
driver. 
'Number 41 Ellerwood Road,' he says with a flourish. 
No. This can't be happening. 
Bewildered, I look around the bus, and a couple of drunk 
teenagers stare blankly back. 
'What's going on?' I look at the driver. 'Did he pay you?' 
'Five hundred quid,' says the driver, and winks at me. 'Whoever 
he is, love, I'd hold onto 


him.'


 Five hundred quid? Oh my God.


 'Thanks,' I say dazedly. 'I mean, thanks for the ride.' 


Feeling as though I'm in a dream, I get off the bus and head for 
the front door. But Lissy 


has already got there and is opening it. 
'Is that a bus ?' she says, staring. 'What's it doing here?' 


'It's my bus,' I say. 'It took me home.' 
I wave to the driver, who waves back, and the bus rumbles off 
into the night. 
'I don't believe it!' says Lissy slowly, gazing as it disappears round 
the corner. She turns 


to look at me. 'So … it was OK in the end?' 



 'Yes,' I say. 'Yes. It was … OK.' 

FOURTEEN

 OK. Don't tell anyone. Do not tell anyone.

 Do not tell anyone that you were on a date with Jack Harper last 
night. 

I mean, not that I'm exactly planning to tell anyone. But as I arrive 
at work the next day I 

feel almost convinced I'm going to blurt it out by mistake. 

Or someone's going to guess. I mean, surely it must be obvious 
from my face. From my 
clothes, From the way I'm walking. I feel as though everything I do 
screams 'Hey, guess 

what I did last night?'

 'Hiya,' says Caroline as I make myself a cup of coffee. 'How are 
you?' 

'I'm fine, thanks!' I say, giving a guilty jump. 'I just had a quiet 
evening in last night. Just 

… really quiet! With my flatmate. We watched three videos, Pretty 
Woman, Notting Hill 
and Four Weddings . Just the two of us. No-one else.' 


 'Right,' says Caroline, looking a bit bemused. 'Lovely!' 

Oh God. I'm losing it. Everyone knows this is how criminals get 
caught. They add too 
many details and trip themselves up.

 Right, no more babbling. Stick to one-word answers.

 'Hi,' says Artemis as I sit down at my desk. 

'Hi,' I say, forcing myself not to add anything else. Not even about 
which kind of pizza 
Lissy and I ordered, even though I've got a whole story ready 
about how the pizza 
company thought we said green pepper instead of pepperoni, ha 
ha, what a mix-up. 

I'm supposed to be doing some filing this morning, but instead I 
find myself taking out a 
piece of paper and starting a list of possible date venues where I 
can take Jack tonight. 

1. Pub. No. Far too boring. 
2. Movie. No. Too much sitting, not talking to each other. 
3. Ice skating. I have no idea why I put that, since I can't even 
skate. Except it was in 
Splash . 
4. 
God, I've run out of ideas already. How crap is this? I stare at the 
sheet blankly, halftuning 
into the idle conversation which is going on around me. 
'… really working on some secret project, or is that just a 
rumour?'

 '… company in a new direction, apparently, but no-one knows 
exactly what he's …' 


 '… is this Sven guy anyway? I mean, what function does he 
have?' 

'He's with Jack, isn't he?' says Amy, who works in Finance but 
fancies Nick, so is always 
finding excuses to come into our office. 'He's Jack's lover.' 

' What?' I say, suddenly sitting up, and snapping the end of my 
pencil. Luckily 
everyone's too busy gossiping to notice.

 Jack gay? Jack gay? 

That's why he didn't kiss me goodnight. He only wants me to be a 
friend. He'll introduce 
me to Sven and I'll have to pretend to be all cool with it, like I 
knew all along—

 'Is Jack Harper gay?' Caroline is saying in astonishment.

 'I just assumed he was,' says Amy with a shrug. 'He looks gay, 
don't you think?'

 'Not really,' says Caroline, screwing up her face. 'Not groomed 
enough.' 

'I don't think he looks gay!' I say, trying to sound light-hearted 
and just kind of vaguely 
interested. 

'He's not gay,' chimes in Artemis authoritatively. 'I read a old 
profile of him in Newsweek 
, and he was dating the female president of Origin Software. And 
it said before that he 
went out with some supermodel.' 

A huge surge of relief floods through me. 

I knew he wasn't gay. Obviously I knew he wasn't gay



Honestly, do these people have nothing better to do than engage 
in stupid mindless 
speculation about people they don't know? 
'So is Jack seeing anyone at the moment?' 
'Who knows?' 
'He's pretty sexy, don't you think?' says Caroline with a wicked 
grin. 'I wouldn't mind.' 
'Yeah right,' says Nick. 'You probably wouldn't mind his private 

jet, either.' 
'Apparently, he hasn't had a relationship since Pete Laidler died,' 
says Artemis crisply. 


'So I doubt you've got much of a chance.' 
'Bad luck, Caroline,' says Nick, with a laugh. 

I feel really uncomfortable, listening to this. Maybe I should leave 
the room until they've 
stopped. But then, maybe that would draw attention to myself. 
Just for an instant, I find myself imagining what would happen if I 

stood up and said, 
'Actually I had dinner with Jack Harper last night.' They'd all stare 
at me, dumbfounded, 
and maybe somebody would gasp, and … 


Oh, who am I kidding? They wouldn't even believe me, would 
they? They'd say I was 
suffering from delusions.


 'Hi, Connor,' comes Caroline's voice, interrupting my thoughts. 



Connor? My head jerks up in slight dismay. And there he is, with 
no warning, 


approaching my desk with a wounded look on his face. 


What's he doing here?


 Has he found out about me and Jack? 


My heart starts to thump hard and I nervously push my hair back. 
I've spotted him a 


couple of times around the building, but this is our first moment 
face to face, since we 
broke up.


 'Hi,' he says.


 'Hi,' I reply awkwardly, and there's silence. 


Suddenly I notice my unfinished list of date ideas lying 
prominently on my desk. Shit. 
As casually as possible I reach for it, screw it up and nonchalantly 
drop it in the bin. 


All the gossip about Sven and Jack has petered out. I know 
everyone in the office is 
listening to us, even if they're pretending to be doing something 
else. It's like we're the inhouse 
soap opera or something. 


And I know which character I am. I'm the heartless bitch who 
chucked her lovely, decent 
man for no good reason. 


Oh God. The thing is, I do feel guilty, I really do. Every time I see 
Connor, or even think 
about him, I get a horrible tight feeling in my chest. But does he 
have to have such an 



expression of injured dignity on his face? A kind of you'vemortally-
wounded-me-butI'msuch-
a-good-person-I-forgive-you look.

 I can feel my guilt ebbing away and annoyance starting to ebb in. 
'I only came up,' says Connor at last, 'because I'd put us down to 
do a stint on the Pimm's 
stall together at the Corporate Family Day. Obviously when I did 
so, I thought we'd be 

—', He breaks off, looking more wounded than ever. 'Anyway. But I 
don't mind going 
through with it. If you don't.'

 I'm not going to be the one to say I can't bear to stand next to 
him for half an hour. 
'I don't mind!' I say. 
'Fine.' 
'Fine.' 
There's another awkward pause. 
'I found your blue shirt, by the way,' I say, with a tiny shrug. 'I'll 
bring it in.'

 'Thanks. I think I've got some stuff of yours, too …' 
'Hey,' says Nick, coming over towards us with a wicked, eyes 
gleaming, let's-shit-stir 

expression. 'I saw you with someone last night.' 
My heart gives a huge, terrified bound. Fuck! Fuck fuck OK … OK 
… It's OK. He's not 

looking at me. He's looking at Connor. 


Who the hell'was Connor with?

 'That was just a friend,' says Connor stiffly. 

'Are you sure?' says Nick. 'You looked pretty friendly to me.' 
'Shut up, Nick,' says Connor, looking pained. 'It's far too early to 
be thinking of … 

moving on. Isn't it, Emma?'

 'Er … yes.' I swallow several times. 'Absolutely. Definitely.'

 Oh God.

 Anyway. Never mind. I'm not going to worry about Connor. I have 
an important date to 
think about. And thank goodness, by the end of the day I have at 
last come up with the 
perfect venue. In fact I'm amazed I didn't think of it before! There 
is one tiny little hitch – 
but I'll easily overcome it. 

Sure enough, it only takes me about half an hour to persuade 
Lissy that when they said 
'The key shall in no circumstances be transferred to any nonmember' 
in the rules, they 
didn't really mean it. At last she reaches into her bag and hands it 
to me, an anxious 
expression on her face.

 'Don't lose it!' 

'I won't! Thanks, Liss.' I give her a hug. 'Honestly, I'll do the same 
for you when I'm a 


member of an exclusive club.' 
'You remember the password, don't you?' 
'Yes. Alexander.' 

'Where are you going?' says Jemima, coming into my room all 
dressed up to go out. She 
gives me a critical look. 'Nice top. Where's it from?'

 'Oxfam. I mean, Whistles.' 
I've decided tonight I'm not even going to try to borrow anything 
from Jemima. I'm 

going to wear all my own clothes, and if Jack doesn't like it, he can 
lump it. 
'I was meaning to ask,' Jemima says, narrowing her eyes. 'You two 
didn't go into my 

room last night, did you?' 
'No,' says Lissy innocently. 'Why, did it look like we had?' 


Jemima was out until three, and by the time she got back, 
everything was back in place. 
Sellotape and everything. We couldn't have been more careful. 
'No,' admits Jemima reluctantly. 'Nothing was out of place. But I 


just got a feeling . As 


though someone had been in there.' 
'Did you leave the window open?' says Lissy. 'Because I read this 
article recently, about 
how monkeys are being sent into houses to steal things.' 



 ' Monkeys?' Jemima stares at her. 
'Apparently. The thieves train them.' 
Jemima looks perplexedly from Lissy to me, and I force myself to 


keep a straight face. 
'Anyway,' I say quickly, to change the subject. 'You might like to 
know that you were 

wrong about Jack. I'm going out with him again tonight. It wasn't a 
disastrous date at all!' 
There's no need to add the small detail that we had a big row and 

I stormed out and he 
had to follow me to the bus stop. Because the point is, we're 
having a second date.

 'I wasn't wrong,' says Jemima. 'You just wait. I predict doom.' 
I pull a face at her behind her back as she leaves, and start 
putting on my mascara 

'What's the time?' I say, frowning as I blob a bit on my eyelid. 
'Ten to eight,' says Lissy. 'How are you going to get there?' 
'Cab.' 
Suddenly the buzzer goes, and we both look up. 
'He's early,' says Lissy. 'That's a bit weird.' 
'He can't be early!' We hurry into the sitting room, and Lissy gets 

to the window first. 
'Oh my God,' she says, looking down to the street below. 'It's 
Connor.' 
' Connor?' I stare at her in horror. 'Connor's here?' 


 'He's holding a box of stuff. Shall I buzz him up?'

 'No! Pretend we're not in!'

 'Too late,' says Lissy, and pulls a face. 'Sorry. He's seen me.' 

The buzzer sounds again, and we look at each other helplessly.

 'OK,' I say at last. 'I'm going down.'

 Shit shit shit … 

I pelt downstairs and breathlessly open the door. And there, 
standing on the doorstep, is 
Connor, wearing the same martyred expression he had at the 
office.


 'Hi,' he says. 'Here are the things I was telling you about. I 
thought you might need them.' 


'Er, thanks,' I say, grabbing the box, which seems to contain one 
bottle of L'Oreal 
shampoo and some jumper I've never seen in my life. 'I haven't 
quite sorted out your stuff 
yet, so I'll bring it to the office, shall I?' 


I dump the box on the stairs, and quickly turn back before Connor 
thinks I'm inviting 
him in.


 'So, um, thanks,' I say. 'It was really good of you to stop by.' 


'No problem,' says Connor. He gives a heavy sigh. 'Emma … I was 
thinking perhaps we 
could use this as an opportunity to talk. Maybe we could have a 
drink, or supper even.' 


'Gosh,' I say brightly. 'I'd love that. I really would. But to be 
honest, now isn't a 



completely brilliant time.' 
'Are you going out?' His face falls. 
'Um, yes. With Lissy.' I glance surreptitiously at my watch. It's six 
minutes to eight. 'So 

anyway, I'll see you soon. You know, around the office …' 
'Why are you so flustered?' Connor is staring at me. 
'I'm not flustered!' I say, and lean casually against the doorframe. 

'What's wrong?' His eyes narrow suspiciously, and he looks past 
me into the hall. 'Is 
something going on?' 


'Connor,' I put a reassuring hand on his arm. 'Nothing's going on. 
You're imagining 
things.' 


At that moment, Lissy appears behind me at the door. 
'Um, Emma, there's a very urgent phone call for you,' she says in 
a really stilted voice. 


'You'd better come straight away … oh, hello Connor!' 
Unfortunately Lissy is the worst liar in the world. 
'You're trying to get rid of me!' says Connor, looking from Lissy to 

me in bewilderment. 
'No we're not!' says Lissy, flushing bright red. 
'Hang on,' says Connor suddenly, staring at my outfit. 'Hang on a 

minute. I don't … are 
you going on a … date?' 
My mind works quickly. If I deny it, we'll probably get into some 

huge argument. But if 


I admit the truth, maybe he'll stalk off in a huff.

 'You're right,' I say. 'I've got a date.' 

There's a shocked silence. 

'I don't believe this,' says Connor, shaking his head, and to my 
dismay, sinks heavily 
down onto the garden wall. I glance at my watch. Three minutes 
to eight. Shit!

 'Connor …'

 'You told me there wasn't anyone else! You promised, Emma!' 

'There wasn't! But … there is now. And he'll be here soon … 
Connor, you really don't 
want to get into this.' I grab his arm and try to lift him up, but he 
weighs about twelve 
stone. 'Connor, please. Don't make this more painful for 
everyone.'

 'I suppose you're right.' At last Connor gets to his feet. 'I'll go.' 

He walks to the gate, his back hunched in defeat, and I feel a 
pang of guilt, mixed with 

an urgent desire for him to hurry. Then, to my horror, he turns 
back.

 'So, who is it?' 

'It's … it's someone you don't know,' I say, crossing my fingers 
behind my back. 'Look, 

we'll have lunch soon and have a good talk. Or something, I 
promise.' 


 'OK,' says Connor, looking more wounded than ever. 'Fine. I get 
the message.' 

I watch, unable to breathe, as he shuts the gate behind him and 
walks slowly along the 

street. Keep walking, keep walking … don't stop … 

As he finally rounds the corner, Jack's silver car appears at the 
other end of the street.

 'Oh my God,' says Lissy, staring at it.

 'Don't!' I sink onto the stone wall. 'Lissy, I can't cope with this.' 

I feel shaky. I think I need a drink. And I've only got mascara on 
one set of eyelashes, I 

abruptly realize. 

The silver car pulls up in front of the house, and out gets the 
same uniformed driver as 
before. He opens the passenger door, and Jack steps out.

 'Hi!' he says, looking taken aback to see me. 'Am I late?' 

'No! I was just … um … sitting here. You know. Taking in the view.' 
I gesture across the 
road, where I notice for the first time that a man with a huge belly 
is changing the wheel 
on his caravan. 'Anyway!' I say, hastily standing up, 'Actually, I'm 
not quite ready. Do 
you want to come up for a minute?'

 'Sure,' says Jack with a smile. 'That would be nice.' 
'And send your car away,' I add. 'You weren't supposed to have it!' 
'You weren't supposed to be sitting outside your house and catch 
me out,' retorts Jack 


with a grin. 'OK, Daniel, that's it for the night.' He nods to the 
driver. 'I'm in this lady's 
hands from now on.'


 'This is Lissy, my flatmate,' I say as the driver gets back into the 
car. 'Lissy, Jack.'


 'Hi,' says Lissy with a self-conscious grin, as they shake hands. 


As we make our way up the stairs to our flat, I'm suddenly aware 
of how narrow they 
are, and how the cream paint on the walls is all scuffed, and the 
carpet smells of cabbage. 
Jack probably lives in some enormous grand mansion. He 
probably has a marble staircase 
or something.


 But so what? We can't all have marble. 


Anyway, it's probably awful. All cold and clattery. You probably trip 
on it all the time, 
and it probably chips really easily— 


'Emma, if you want to get ready, I'll fix Jack a drink,' says Lissy, 
with a smile that says: 
He's nice! 


'Thanks,' I say, shooting back an 'isn't he?' look. I hurry into my 
room and hurriedly start 
applying mascara to my other eye. 


A few moments later there's a little knock at my door.


 'Hi!' I say, expecting Lissy. But in comes Jack, holding out a glass 
of sweet sherry.


 'Oh, thanks!' I say gratefully. 'I could do with a drink.' 



 'I won't come in,' he says politely. 
'No, it's fine. Sit down!' 
I gesture to the bed, but it's covered with clothes. And my 

dressing table stool is piled 

high with magazines. Damn, I should have tidied up a bit. 
'I'll stand,' says Jack with a little smile. He takes a sip of what 
looks like whisky, and 

looks around my room in fascination. 'So this is your room. Your 
world.'

 'Yes.' I flush slightly, unscrewing my lip-gloss. 'It's a bit messy—' 
'It's very nice. Very homey.' I can see him taking in the shoes piled 
in the corner, the fish 

mobile hanging from my light, the mirror with necklaces strung 
over the side, and a new 
skirt hanging on the wardrobe door.

 'Cancer Research?' he says puzzledly, looking at the label. 'What 
does that—'

 'It's a shop,' I say, a little defiantly. 'A second-hand shop.'

 'Ah.' He nods in tactful comprehension. 'Nice bedcover,' he adds, 
smiling.

 'It's ironic,' I say hastily. 'It's an ironic statement.'

 God, how embarrassing. I should have changed it. 
Now Jack's staring incredulously at my open dressing-table 
drawer, crammed with 
makeup. 'How many lipsticks do you have?' 


 'Er, a few …' I say, hastily closing it. 

Maybe it wasn't such a great idea to let Jack come in here. He's 
picking up my Perfectil 
vitamins, and examining them. I mean, what's so interesting 
about vitamins ? Now he's 
looking at Katie's crochet belt.

 'What's this? A snake?' 

'It's a belt,' I say, screwing up my face as I put in an earring. 'I 
know. It's hideous. I can't 

stand crochet.' 

Where's my other earring? Where?

 Oh, OK, here it is. Now what's Jack doing? 

I turn to see him looking in fascination at my exercise chart, which 
I put up in January 

after I'd spent the entire Christmas eating Quality Street. 
'"Monday, 7 a.m.",' he reads aloud. '"Brisk jog round block. Forty 
sit-ups. Lunch time: 

yoga class. Evening: Pilates tape. Sixty sit-ups."' He takes a sip of 
whisky. 'Very 
impressive. You do all this?' 

'Well,' I say after a pause. 'I don't exactly manage every single … I 
mean, it was quite an 
ambitious … you know … er … Anyway!' I quickly spritz myself 
with perfume. 'Let's 
go!' 

I have to get him out of here quickly before he does something 
like spot a Tampax and 


ask me what it is. I mean, honestly! Why on earth is he so 
interested in everything? 

FIFTEEN 

As we head out into the balmy evening, I feel light and happy with 
anticipation. Already 
there's a completely different atmosphere from yesterday night. 
No scary cars; no posh 
restaurants. It feels more casual. More fun.


 'So,' says Jack, as we walk up to the main road. 'An evening out, 
Emma-style.' 


'Absolutely!' I stick out my hand and hail a taxi, and give the 
name of the road in 
Clerkenwell off which the little alley runs. 


'We're allowed to go by taxi, are we?' says Jack mildly as we get 
in. 'We don't have to 
wait for a bus?'


 'As a very special treat,' I say with mock severity.


 'So, are we eating? Drinking? Dancing?' says Jack, as we move off 
down the street. 


'Wait and see!' I beam at him. 'I just thought we could have a 
really laid-back, 
spontaneous evening.'


 'I guess I over-planned last night,' says Jack after a pause. 


'No, it was lovely!' I say kindly. 'But sometimes you can put too 
much thought into 
things. You know, sometimes it's better just to go with the flow 
and see what happens.' 



 'You're right.' Jack smiles. 'Well, I look forward to going with the 
flow.' 

As we whiz along Upper Street, I feel quite proud of myself. It just 
shows I'm a true 
Londoner. I can take my guests to little places off the beaten 
track. I can find spots which 
aren't just the obvious venues to go. I mean, not that Jack's 
restaurant wasn't amazing. But 
how much cooler will this be? A secret club! And I mean, who 
knows, Madonna might be 
there this evening! 

After about twenty minutes we get to Clerkenwell. I insist on 
paying the taxi fare, and 
lead Jack down the alley. 

'Very interesting,' says Jack, looking around. 'So where are we 
heading?' 
'Just wait,' I say enigmatically. I head for the door, press the 
buzzer and take Lissy's key 

out of my pocket with a little frisson of excitement.

 He is going to be so impressed. He is going to be so impressed!

 'Hello?' comes a voice.

 'Hello,' I say casually. 'I'd like to speak to Alexander, please.'

 'Who?' says the voice.

 'Alexander,' I repeat, and give a knowing smile. Obviously they 
have to double-check.

 'Ees no Alexander here.'

 'You don't understand. Al-ex-and-er,' I enunciate clearly. 


 'Ees no Alexander.' 


Maybe I got the wrong door, it suddenly occurs to me. I mean, I 
remember it as being 


this one – but maybe it was this other one with the frosted glass. 
Yes. That one looks 
quite familiar, actually.


 'Tiny hitch,' I smile at Jack, and press the new bell. 


There's silence. I wait a few minutes, then try again, and again. 
There's no reply. OK. So 
… it's not this one either.


 Fuck. 


I am a moron. Why didn't I check the address? I was just so sure 
I'd remember where it 
was.


 'Is there a problem?' says Jack.


 'No!' I say at once, and smile brightly. 'I'm just trying to recall 
exactly …' 


I look up and down the street, trying not to panic. Which one was 
it? Am I going to have 
to ring every single doorbell in the street? I take a few steps along 
the pavement, trying to 
trigger my memory. And then, through an arch, I spy another 
alley, almost identical to 
this one. 


I feel a huge thud of horror. Am I in the right alley , even? I dart 
forward and peer into 



the other alley. It looks exactly the same. Rows of nondescript 
doors and blanked-out 
windows. 


My heart starts to beat more quickly. What am I going to do? I 
can't try every single 
doorbell in every bloody alley in the vicinity. It never once 
occurred to me that this might 
happen. Not once. I never even thought to— 


OK, I'm being stupid. I'll call Lissy! She'll tell me. I pull out my 
mobile and dial home, 
but immediately it clicks onto answerphone. 


'Hi, Lissy, it's me,' I say, trying to sound light and casual. 'A tiny 
little hitch has 
happened, which is that I can't remember exactly which door the 
club is behind. Or 
actually … which alley it's in either. So if you get this, could you 
give me a call? Thanks!'


 I look up to see Jack watching me. 
'Everything OK?' 
'Just a slight glitch,' I say, and give a relaxed little laugh. 'There's 
this secret club along 


here somewhere, but I can't quite remember where.'


 'Never mind,' says Jack nicely. 'These things happen.' 


I jab the number for home again, but it's engaged. Quickly I dial 
Lissy's mobile number, 


but it's switched off.


 Oh fuck. Fuck. We can't stand here in the street all night. 



 'Emma,' says Jack cautiously. 'Would you like me to make a 
reservation at—' 


'No!' I jump as though stung. Jack's not going to reserve anything. 
I've said I'll organize 


this evening, and I will. 'No thanks. It's OK.' I make a snap 
decision. 'Change of plan. 
We'll go to Antonio's instead.'


 'I could call the car …' begins Jack. 


'We don't need the car!' I stride purposefully towards the main 
road and thank God, a 
taxi's coming along with its light on. I flag it down, open the door 
for Jack and say to the 
driver,


 'Hi, Antonio's on Sanderstead Road in Clapham, please.'


 Hurrah. I have been grown-up and decisive and saved the 
situation.


 'Where's Antonio's?' says Jack, as the taxi begins to speed away. 


'It's a bit out of the way, in south London. But it's really nice. Lissy 
and I used to go there 
when we lived in Wandsworth. It's got huge pine tables, and 
gorgeous food, and sofas and 
stuff. And they never chivvy you.'


 'It sounds perfect.' Jack smiles, and I smile proudly back. 


OK, it should not take this long to get from Clerkenwell to 
Clapham. We should have got 
there ages ago. I mean, it's only down the road! 


After about half an hour, I lean forward and say to the driver yet 
again, 'Is there a 



problem?'

 'Traffic, love.' He gives an easy shrug. 'What can you do?' 

You can find a clever traffic-avoiding back route like taxi drivers 
are supposed to! I want 

to yell furiously. But instead I say politely, 'So … how long do you 
think it'll be before 
we get there?'

 'Who knows?'

 I sink back on my seat, feeling my stomach churning with 
frustration. 

We should have gone somewhere in Clerkenwell. Or Covent 
Garden. I am such a moron 
…

 'Emma, don't worry,' says Jack. 'I'm sure it'll be great when we 
get there.'

 'I hope so,' I say with a weak smile. 

I can't make small talk. I'm using every ounce of concentration in 
willing the taxi to go 
faster. I stare out of the window, giving an inward cheer every 
time the postcodes on the 
street signs get closer to where we want to be. SW3 … SW11 … 
SW4! 

At last! We're in Clapham. Nearly there … 
Shit. Another bloody red traffic light. I almost can't keep still on 
my seat And the driver's 

just sitting there, like it doesn't matter. 


 OK, it's green! Go! Go now! 

But he's pulling off in this leisurely way, as though we've got all 
day … he's chuntering 

down the street … now he's giving way to another driver! What is 
he doing?

 OK. Calm down, Emma. Here's the street. We're finally here. 

'So this is it!' I say, trying to sound relaxed as we get out of the 
taxi. 'Sorry it took a 

while.'

 'No problem,' says Jack. 'This place looks great!' 

As I hand the fare to the taxi driver, I have to admit I'm pretty 
pleased we came. 
Antonio's looks absolutely amazing! There are fairy lights 
decorating the familiar green 
facade, and helium balloons tied to the canopy, and music and 
laughter spilling out of the 
open door. I can even hear people singing inside. 

'It's not normally quite this buzzing!' I say with a laugh, and head 
for the door. I can 
already see Antonio standing just inside.

 'Hi!' I say as I push the door open. 'Antonio!' 

'Emma!' says Antonio, who's standing by the door holding a glass 
of wine. His cheeks 
are flushed and he's beaming even more widely than usual. ' 
Bellissima!' He kisses me on 
each cheek, and I feel a flood of warm relief. I was right to come 
here. I know the 
management. They'll make sure we have a wonderful time. 


 'This is Jack,' I say, grinning at him. 
'Jack! Wonderful to meet you!' Antonio kisses Jack on each cheek 
too, and I giggle. 
'So, could we have a table for two?' 
'Ah …' He pulls a face of regret. 'Sweetheart, we're closed!' 
'What?' I stare back at him, baffled. 'But … but you're not closed. 
People are here!' I look 


around at all the merry faces. 


'It's a private party!' He raises his glass to someone across the 
room and shouts 
something in Italian. 'My nephew's wedding. You ever meet him? 
Guido. He served here 


a few summers ago.'


 'I … I'm not sure.' 


'He met a lovely girl at the law school. You know, he's qualified 
now. You ever need 


legal advice …'


 'Thanks. Well … congratulations.' 


'I hope the party goes well,' says Jack, and squeezes my arm 
briefly. 'Never mind, Emma, 


you couldn't have known.' 


'Darling, I'm sorry!' says Antonio, seeing my face. 'Another night, 
I'll give you the best 
table we have. You call in advance, you let me know …' 


'I'll do that,' I manage a smile. 'Thanks, Antonio.' 



I can't even look at Jack. I dragged him all the way down to bloody 
Clapham for this. 
I have to redeem this situation. Quickly. 
'We'll go to the pub,' I say as soon as we're outside on the 
pavement. 'I mean, what's 

wrong with just sitting down with a nice drink?' 

'Sounds good,' says Jack mildly, and follows me as I hurry down 
the street to a sign 
reading The Nag's Head, and push the door open. I've never been 
in this pub before, but 

surely it's bound to be fairly—

 OK. Maybe not. 

This has to be the grimmest pub I've ever seen in my life. 
Threadbare carpet, no music, 

and with no signs of life except a single man with a paunch.

 I cannot have a date with Jack in here. I just can't. 

'Right!' I say, swinging the door shut again, 'Let's think again.' I 
quickly look up and 
down the street, but apart from Antonio's everything is shut 
except for a couple of grotty 
takeaway places and a minicab firm. 'Well … let's just grab a taxi 
and head back to town!' 
I say, with a kind of shrill brightness. 'It won't take too long.'

 I stride to the edge of the pavement and stick out my hand. 
During the next three minutes not a single car passes by. Not just 
no taxis. No vehicles at 


all.

 'Kind of quiet,' observes Jack at last.

 'Well, this is really a residential area. Antonio's is a bit of a oneoff.' 


Outwardly, I'm still quite calm. But inside I'm starting to panic. 
What are we going to 

do? Should we try to walk to Clapham High Street? But it's bloody 
miles away. 

I glance at my watch and see with a dart of shock that it's 9.15. 
We've spent over an hour 
faffing about and we haven't even had a drink. And it's all my 
fault. I can't even organize 
one simple evening without it going catastrophically wrong. 

Suddenly I want to burst into tears. I want to sink down on the 
pavement and bury my 
head in my hands and sob.

 'How about pizza?' says Jack, and my head jerks up in sudden 
hope. 

'Why? Do you know a pizza place round—' 

'I see pizza for sale.' He nods at one of the grotty takeaway 
places. 'And I see a bench.' 
He gestures to the other side of the road, where there's a tiny 
railed garden with paving 


and trees and a wooden bench. 'You get the pizza.' He smiles at 
me. 'I'll save the bench.'


 I have never felt so mortified in my entire life. Ever.


 Jack Harper takes me to the grandest, poshest restaurant in the 
world. And I take him to a 


park bench in Clapham. 


'Here's your pizza,' I say, carrying the hot boxes over to where 
he's sitting. 'I got 
margarita, ham and mushroom and pepperoni.' 


I can't quite believe this is going to be our supper. I mean, they 
aren't even nice pizzas. 
They aren't even gourmet, roasted-artichoke type of pizzas. 
They're just cheap slabs of 
dough pastry with melted, congealed cheese, and a few dodgy 
toppings.


 'Perfect,' says Jack with a smile. He takes a large bite, then 
reaches into his inside pocket. 
'Now, this was supposed to be your going home present, but since 
we're here …' 


I gape as he produces a small, stainless steel cocktail shaker and 
two matching cups. He 
unscrews the top of the shaker and to my astonishment, pours a 
pink, transparent liquid 


into each cup.


 Is that …


 'I don't believe it!' I gaze at him, wide-eyed. 


'Well, come on. I couldn't let you wonder all your life what it 
tasted like, could I?' He 



hands me a cup and raises his towards me. 'Your good health.' 
'Cheers.' I take a sip of the cocktail … and oh my God it's yummy. 
Sharp and sweet, with 

a kick of vodka. 
'Good?' 
'Delicious!' I say, and take another sip. 

He's being so nice to me. He's pretending he's having a good 

time. But what does he 
think inside? He must despise me. He must think I'm a complete 
and utter dizzy cow.


 'Emma, are you OK?' 


'Not really,' I say in a thick voice. 'Jack, I'm so sorry. I really am. I 
honestly had it all 
planned. We were going to go to this really cool club where 


celebrities go, and it was 


going to be really good fun …' 
'Emma.' Jack puts his drink down and looks at me. 'I wanted to 
spend this evening with 
you. And that's what we're doing.'


 'Yes. But—' 
'That's what we're doing,' he repeats firmly. 
Slowly he leans towards me and my heart starts to pound. Oh my 
God. Oh my God. He's 
going to kiss me. He's going to— 
'Arrgh! Arrgh! Arrrgh!' 


I leap up off the bench in total panic. A spider is running up my 
leg. A big black spider. 
'Get it off!' I say, frantically.'Get it off!' 


With one brisk swipe, Jack brushes the spider off onto the grass, 
and I subside back on 
the bench, my heart racing. 


And of course, the mood's completely ruined. Great. Just 
marvellous. Jack tries to kiss 
me and I shriek in horror. I'm really doing splendidly tonight. 


Why was I so pathetic? I think furiously. Why did I scream? I 
should have just gritted 
my teeth! 


Not literally gritted my teeth, obviously. But I should have been 
cool. In fact, I should 
have been so swept away that I didn't even notice the spider. 


'I don't suppose you're afraid of spiders,' I say to Jack, giving an 
awkward laugh. 'I don't 
suppose you're afraid of anything.'


 Jack gives a noncommittal little smile in return.


 ' Areyou afraid of anything?' I persist.


 'Real men don't get afraid,' he says jokily. 


In spite of myself, I feel a tiny prickle of discontent. Jack's not the 
best person in the 
world at talking about himself.


 'So, where did you get this scar?' I ask, gesturing to his wrist.


 'It's a long, boring story.' He smiles. 'You don't want to hear it.' 



I do! my mind immediately says. I do want to hear it. But I just 
smile, and take another 
sip of my drink.

 Now he's just staring ahead into the distance, as if I'm not even 
there.

 Did he forget about kissing me?

 Should I kiss him? No. No.

 'Pete loved spiders,' he says suddenly. 'Kept them as pets. Huge, 
furry ones. And snakes.'

 'Really?' I pull a face.

 'Crazy. He was a crazy fucking guy.' He exhales sharply.

 'You … still miss him,' I say hesitantly.

 'Yes. I still miss him.' 
There's another silence. In the distance I can hear a group of 
people leaving Antonio's, 
shouting to each other in Italian.

 'Did he leave any family?' I say cautiously, and immediately 
Jack's face closes up.

 'Some,' he says.

 'Do you see them still?' 
'Occasionally.' He exhales sharply, then turns and smiles. 'You 
have tomato sauce on 
your chin.' As he reaches up to wipe it away, he meets my eyes. 
Slowly, he's bending 
towards me. Oh my God. This is it, this is really it. This is—' 


 'Jack.' 

We both leap in shock, and I drop my cocktail on the ground. I 
turn round, and stare in 

utter disbelief. Sven is standing at the gate of the tiny garden. 

What the bloody fuck is Sven doing here?

 'Great timing,' murmurs Jack. 'Hi, Sven.'

 'But … but what's he doing here?' I stare at Jack. 'How did he 
know where we were?' 

'He called while you were getting the pizza.' Jack sighs and rubs 
his face. 'I didn't know 
he'd get here this quickly. Emma … something's come up. I need 
to have a quick word 
with him. I promise it won't take long. OK?' 

'OK,' I say with a little shrug. After all, what else can I say? But 
inside, my whole body 
is pulsing in frustration, bordering on anger. Trying to keep calm, I 
reach for the cocktail 
shaker, pour the remains of the pink cocktail into my cup and take 
a deep swig. 

Jack and Sven are standing by the gate having an animated 
conversation in low voices. I 
take a sip of cocktail and casually shift along the bench so I can 
hear better.

 '… what to do from here …'

 '… plan B … back up to Glasgow …'

 '… urgent …' 


I look up and find myself meeting Sven's eye. Quickly I look away 
again, pretending to 
be studying the ground. Their voices descend even lower, and I 
can't hear a word. Then 
Jack breaks off and comes towards me.

 'Emma … I'm really sorry about this. But I'm going to have to go.' 
' Go?' I stare at him in dismay. 'What, now?' 
'I'm going to have to go away for a few days. I'm sorry.' He sits 
down beside me on the 

bench. 'But … it's pretty important.'

 'Oh. Oh, right.'

 'Sven's ordered a car for you to take you home.'

 Great, I think savagely. Thanks a lot, Sven.

 'That was really … thoughtful of him,' I say, and trace a pattern in 
the dirt with my shoe. 

'Emma, I really have to go,' says Jack, seeing my face. 'But I'll see 
you when I get back, 

OK? At the Corporate Family Day. And we'll … take it from there.'

 'OK.' I try to smile. 'That would be great.'

 'I had a good time tonight.' 


 'So did I,' I say, staring down at the bench. 'I had a really good 
time.' 

'We'll have a good time again.' Gently he lifts my chin until I'm 
looking straight at him, 'I 

promise, Emma.' 
He leans forward and this time there's no hesitation. His mouth 
lands on mine, sweet and 

firm. He's kissing me. Jack Harper is kissing me on a park bench. 

His mouth is opening mine, his stubble is rough against my face. 
His arm creeps around 
me and pulls me towards him, and my breath catches in my 
throat. I find myself reaching 
under his jacket, feeling the ridges of muscle beneath his shirt, 
wanting to rip it off. Oh 

God, I want this. I want more.

 Suddenly he pulls away, and I feel as if I've been wrenched out of 
a dream.

 'Emma, I have to go.' 

My mouth is prickly wet. I can still feel his skin on mine. My entire 
body is throbbing. 

This can't be the end. It can't.

 'Don't go,' I hear myself saying thickly. 'Half an hour.' 

What am I suggesting? That we do it under a bush ? 


 Frankly, yes. Anywhere would do. I have never in my life been so 


desperate for a man. 
'I don't want to go.' His dark eyes are almost opaque. 'But I have 
to.' He takes my hand, 


and I cling onto his, trying to prolong contact for as long as 
possible. 
'So … I'll … I'll see you.' I can barely talk properly. 
'I can't wait.' 
'Neither can I.'

 'Jack.' We both look up to see Sven at the gate. 
'OK,' calls Jack. We stand up and I discreetly look away from Jack's 
slightly strange 

posture. 
I could ride along in the car and— 
No. No . Rewind. I did not think that. 

When we reach the road, I see two silver cars waiting by the 

pavement. Sven is standing 
by one, and the other is obviously for me. Bloody hell. I feel like 
I've suddenly become 


part of the royal family or something. 
As the driver opens the door for me, Jack touches my hand briefly. 
I want to grab him for 
a final snog, but somehow I manage to control myself. 



 'Bye,' he murmurs. 
'Bye,' I murmur back. 
Then I get into the car, the door closes with an expensive clunk, 
and we purr away. 

SIXTEEN 
We'll take it from there. That could mean … 
Or it could mean … 
Oh God. Every time I think about it, my stomach gives an excited 
little fizz. I can't 

concentrate at work. I can't think about anything else.

 The Corporate Family Day is a company event, I keep reminding 
myself. Not a date. It'll 
be a strictly work occasion, and there probably won't be any 
opportunity at all for Jack 
and me to do more than say hello in a formal, boss-employee 
manner. Possibly shake 

hands. Nothing more.

 But … you never know what might happen next. 

We'll take it from there.

 Oh God. Oh God. 

On Saturday morning I get up extra early, exfoliate all over, 
Immac under my arms, rub 

in my most expensive body cream and paint my toenails.

 Just because it's always a good thing to be well groomed. No 
other reason. 


I choose my Gossard lacy bra and matching knickers, and my 
most flattering bias cut 

summer dress. 

Then, with a slight blush, I pop some condoms into my bag. 
Simply because it's always 
good to be prepared. This is a lesson I learned when I was eleven 
years old at Brownies, 
and it's always stayed with me. OK, maybe Brown Owl was talking 
about spare hankies 
and sewing kits rather than condoms, but the principle is the 
same, surely? 

I look in the mirror, give my lips a final coat of gloss and spray 
Allure all over me. OK. 

Ready for sex.

 I mean, for Jack.

 I mean … Oh God. Whatever. 

The family day is happening at Panther House, which is the 
Panther Corporation's 

country house in Hertfordshire. They use it for training and 
conferences and creative 
brainstorming days, none of which I ever get invited to. So I've 
never been here before, 
and as I get out of the taxi, I have to admit I'm pretty impressed. 
It's a really nice big old 
mansion, with lots of windows and pillars at the front. Probably 
dating from the … older 
period.

 'Fabulous Georgian architecture,' says someone as they crunch 
past on the gravel drive. 
Georgian. That's what I meant. 


I follow the sounds of music and walk round the house to find the 
event in full swing on 


the vast lawn. Brightly coloured bunting is festooning the back of 
the house, tents are 
dotting the grass, a band is playing on a little bandstand and 
children are shrieking on a 
bouncy castle. 


'Emma!' I look up to see Cyril advancing towards me, dressed as a 
joker with a red and 
yellow pointy hat. 'Where's your costume?'


 'Costume!' I try to look surprised. 'Gosh! Um … I didn't realize we 
had to have one.' 


This is not entirely true. Yesterday evening at about five o'clock, 
Cyril sent round an 
urgent email to everyone in the company, reading:A REMINDER: 
AT THE CFD, 
COSTUMES ARE COMPULSORY FOR ALL PANTHER EMPLOYEES. 


But honestly. How are you supposed to produce a costume with 
five minutes' warning? 
And no way was I going to come here today in some hideous 
nylon outfit from the party 
shop.


 Plus let's face it, what can they do about it now? 
'Sorry,' I say vaguely, looking around for Jack. 'Still, never mind …' 
'You people! It was on the memo, it was in the newsletter …' He 
takes hold of my 


shoulder as I try to walk away. 'Well, you'll have to take one of the 
spare ones.' 



 'What?' I look at him blankly. 'What spare ones?' 

'I had a feeling this might happen,' says Cyril with a slight note of 
triumph, 'so I made 

advance provisions.' 

A cold feeling starts to creep over me. He can't mean—

 He can't possibly mean—

 'We've got plenty to choose from,' he's saying. 

No. No way. I have to escape. Now. 

I give a desperate wriggle, but his hand is like a clamp on my 
shoulder. He chivvies me 
into a tent, where two middle-aged ladies are standing beside a 
rack of … oh my God. 
The most revolting, lurid man-made-fibre costumes I've ever 
seen. Worse than the party 
shop. Where did he get these from?

 'No,' I say in panic. 'Really. I'd rather stay as I am.'

 'Everybody has to wear a costume,' says Cyril firmly. 'It was in 
the memo!' 

'But … but this is a costume!' I quickly gesture to my dress. 'I 
forgot to say. It's um … a 
twenties summer garden-party costume, very authentic …' 


'Emma, this is a fun day,' snaps Cyril. 'And part of that fun derives 
from seeing our 
fellow employees and family in amusing outfits. Which reminds 
me, where is your 
family?' 


'Oh.' I pull the regretful face I've been practising all week. 'They … 
actually, they 
couldn't make it.' 


Which could be because I didn't tell them anything about it.


 'You did tell them about it?' He eyes me suspiciously. 'You sent 
them the leaflet?' 


'Yes!' I cross my fingers behind my back. 'Of course I told them. 
They would have loved 
to be here!' 


'Well. You'll have to mingle with other families and colleagues. 
Here we are. Snow 
White.' He shoves a horrendous nylon dress with puffy sleeves 
towards me. 


'I don't want to be Snow White—' I begin, then break off as I see 
Moira from Accounts 
miserably being pushed into a big shaggy gorilla costume. 'OK.' I 
grab the dress. 'I'll be 
Snow White.' 


I almost want to cry. My beautiful flattering dress is lying in a 
calico bag, ready for 
collection at the end of the day. And I am wearing an outfit which 
makes me look like a 
six-year-old. A six-year-old with zero taste and colour-blindness. 


As I emerge disconsolately from the tent, the band is briskly 
playing the 'Oom-pa-pa' 



song from Oliver , and someone is making an incomprehensible, 
crackly announcement 
over the loudspeaker. I look around, squinting against the sun, 
trying to work out who 
everyone is behind their disguises. I spot Paul walking along on 
the grass, dressed as a 
pirate, with three small children hanging off his legs.


 'Uncle Paul! Uncle Paul!' one is shrieking. 'Do your scary face 
again!' 


'I want a lolly!' yells another. 'Uncle Paul, I want a lolleeee!' 
'Hi, Paul,' I say miserably. 'Are you having a good time?' 
'Whoever invented Corporate Family Days should be shot,' he 
says without a flicker of 


humour. 'Get the hell off my foot!' he snaps at one of the children, 
and they all shriek 
with delighted laughter. 


'Mummy, I don't need to spend a penny,' mutters Artemis, as she 
walks by dressed as a 
mermaid, in the company of a commanding woman in a huge hat.


 'Artemis, there's no need to be so touchy!' booms the woman. 


This is so weird. People with their families are completely 
different. Thank God mine 
aren't here.


 I wonder where Jack is. Maybe he's in the house. Maybe I should 
— 



'Emma!' I look up, and see Katie heading towards me. She's 
dressed in a totally bizarre 
carrot costume, holding the arm of an elderly man with grey hair. 
Who must be her father, 
I suppose. 


Which is a bit weird, because I thought she said she was coming 
with— 


'Emma, this is Phillip!' she says radiantly. 'Phillip, meet my friend 
Emma. She's the one 


who brought us together!' 


Wh- what?


 No. I don't believe it. 


This is her new man? This is Phillip? But he has to be at least 
seventy! 


In a total blur, I shake his hand, which is dry and papery, just like 
Grandpa's, and manage 


to make a bit of small talk about the weather. But all the time, I'm 
in total shock. 
Don't get me wrong. I am not ageist. I am not anything-ist. I think 
people are all the 


same, whether they're black or white, male or female, young or— 



 But he's an old man! He's old ! 

'Isn't he lovely?' says Katie fondly, as he goes off to get some 
drinks. 'He's so thoughtful. 

Nothing's too much trouble. I've never been out with a man like 
him before!' 
'I can believe that,' I say, my voice a little strangled. 'What exactly 
is the age gap between 

you two?'

 'I'm not sure,' says Katie in surprise. 'I've never asked. Why?'

 Her face is shiny and happy and totally oblivious. Has she not 
noticed how old he is? 

'No reason!' I clear my throat. 'So … er … remind me. Where 
exactly did you meet 

Phillip again?' 

'You know, silly!' says Katie, mock-chidingly. 'You suggested I 
should try somewhere 
different for lunch, remember? Well, I found this really unusual 
place, tucked away in a 

little street. In fact, I really recommend it.'

 'Is it … a restaurant? A cafe?' 

'Not exactly,' she says thoughtfully. 'I've never been anywhere like 
it before. You go in 


and someone gives you a tray, and you collect your lunch and 
then eat it, sitting at all 
these tables. And it only costs two pounds! And afterwards they 
have free entertainment! 
Like sometimes it's bingo or whist … sometimes it's a singsong 
round the piano. One 
time they had this brilliant tea dance! I've made loads of new 
friends.'

 I stare at her for a few silent seconds. 

'Katie,' I say at last. 'This place. It couldn't possibly be – a day 
care centre for the 

elderly?'

 'Oh!' she says, looking taken aback. 'Erm …'

 'Try and think. Is everyone who goes there on the … old side?' 

'Gosh,' she says slowly, and screws up her brow. 'Now you 
mention it, I suppose 
everyone is kind of quite … mature. But honestly Emma, you 
should come along.' Her 
face brightens. 'We have a real laugh!'

 'You're still going there?' I stare at her. 
'I go every day,' she says in surprise. I'm on the social 
committee.' 
'Hello again!' says Phillip cheerily, reappearing with three glasses. 
He beams at Katie 

and gives her a kiss on the cheek, and she beams back. And 
suddenly I feel quite heartwarmed. 
OK, it's weird. But they do seem to make a really sweet 
couple. 


'The man behind the stall seemed rather stressed out, poor chap,' 
says Phillip, as I take 
my first delicious sip of Pimm's, closing my eyes to savour it.


 Mmm. There is absolutely nothing nicer on a summer's day than 
a nice cold glass of— 


Hang on a minute. My eyes open. Pimm's. 


Shit. I promised to do the Pimm's stall with Connor, didn't I? I 
glance at my watch and 
realize I'm already ten minutes late. Oh, bloody hell. No wonder 
he's stressed out. 


I hastily apologize to Phillip and Katie, then hurry as fast as I can 
to the stall, which is in 
the corner of the garden. There I find Connor manfully coping with 
a huge queue all on 
his own. He's dressed as Henry VIII, with puffy sleeves and 
breeches, and has a huge red 
beard stuck to his face. He must be absolutely boiling. 


'Sorry,' I mutter, sliding in beside him. 'I had to get into my 
costume. What do I have to 
do?' 


'Pour out glasses of Pimm's,' says Connor curtly. 'One pound fifty 
each. Do you think 


you can manage?'


 'Yes!' I say, a bit nettled. 'Of course I can manage!' 


For the next few minutes we're too busy serving Pimm's to talk. 
Then the queue melts 


away, and we're left on our own again. 
Connor isn't even looking at me, and he's clanking glasses around 
so ferociously I'm 



afraid he might break one. Why is he in such a bad mood? 
'Connor, look, I'm sorry I'm late.' 


'That's all right,' he says stiffly, and starts chopping a bundle of 
mint as though he wants 
to kill it. 'So, did you have a nice time the other evening?' 
That's what this is all about.


 'Yes, I did, thanks,' I say after a pause. 
'With your new mystery man.' 
'Yes,' I say, and surreptitiously scan the crowded lawn, searching 


for Jack. 


'It's someone at work, isn't it?' Connor suddenly says, and my 
stomach gives a small 
plunge.


 'Why do you say that?' I say lightly. 
'That's why you won't tell me who it is.' 
'It's not that! It's just … look, Connor, can't you just respect my 


privacy?' 
'I think I have a right to know who I've been dumped for.' He 
shoots me a reproachful 
look. 
'No you don't!' I retort, then realize that sounds a bit mean. 'I just 
don't think it's very 
helpful to discuss it.' 
'Well, I'll work it out.' His jaw sets grimly. 'It won't take me long.' 
'Connor, please. I really don't think—' 



'Emma, I'm not stupid.' He gives me an appraising look. 'I know 
you a lot better than you 
think I do.' 
I feel a flicker of uncertainty. Maybe I've und,erestimated Connor 
all this time. Maybe he 
does know me. Oh God. What if he guesses? 
I start to slice up a lemon, constantly scanning the crowd. Where 
is Jack, anyway? 
'I've got it,' says Connor suddenly, and I look up to see him 
staring at me triumphantly. 
'It's Paul, isn't it?' 
'What?' I gape back at him, wanting to laugh. 'No, it's not Paul! 
Why on earth should you 
think it was Paul?' 
'You keep looking at him.' He gestures to where Paul is standing 
nearby, moodily 
swigging a bottle of beer. 'Every two minutes!' 
'I'm not looking at him,' I say hurriedly. 'I'm just looking at … I'm 
just taking in the 
atmosphere.' 
'So why is he hanging around here?' 
'He's not! Honestly, Connor, take it from me, I'm not going out 
with Paul.' 
'You think I'm a fool, don't you?' says Connor with a flash of anger. 
'I don't think you're a fool! I just … I think this is a pointless 
exercise. You're never going 
to—' 
'Is it Nick?' His eyes narrow. 'You and he have always had a bit of 
a spark going.' 
'No!' I say impatiently. 'It's not Nick.' 
Honestly. Clandestine affairs are hard enough as it is, without your 
ex-boyfriend 
subjecting you to the third degree. I should never have agreed to 
do this stupid Pimm's 

stall.

 'Oh my God,' Connor says in a lowered voice. 'Look.' 


I look up, and my stomach gives an enormous lurch. Jack is 
walking over the grass 


towards us, dressed as a cowboy, with leather chaps and a 
checked shirt and a proper 
cowboy hat.


 He looks so completely and utterly sexy, I feel quite faint. 


'He's coming this way!' hisses Connor. 'Quick! Tidy up that lemon 
peel. Hello, sir,' he 
says in a louder voice. 'Would you like a glass of Pimm's?' 


'Thank you very much, Connor,' says Jack with a smile. Then he 
looks at me. 'Hello, 
Emma. Enjoying the day?' 


'Hello,' I say, my voice about six notches higher than usual. 'Yes, 
it's … lovely!' With 
trembling hands I pour out a glass of Pimm's and give it to him.


 'Emma! You forgot the mint!' says Connor.


 'It doesn't matter about the mint,' says Jack, his eyes fixed on 
mine.


 'You can have some mint if you want it,' I say, gazing back. 


'It looks fine just the way it is.' His eyes give a tiny flash, and he 
takes a deep gulp of 
Pimm's. 


This is so unreal. We can't keep our eyes off each other. Surely it's 
completely obvious to 
everyone else what's going on? Surely Connor must realize? 
Quickly I look away and 
pretend to be busying myself with the ice. 



'So, Emma,' says Jack casually. 'Just to talk work briefly. That extra 
typing assignment I 
asked you about. The Leopold file.'

 'Er yes?' I say, flusteredly dropping an ice-cube onto the counter. 
'Perhaps we could have a quick word about it before I go?' He 
meets my eyes. 'I have a 

suite of rooms up at the house.' 
'Right,' I say, my heart pounding. 'OK.' 
'Say … one o'clock?' 
'One o'clock it is.' 


He saunters off, holding his glass of Pimm's, and I stand staring 
after him, dripping an 
ice-cube onto the grass. 


A suite of rooms. That can only mean one thing.


 Jack and I are going to have sex. 


And suddenly, with no warning, I feel really, really nervous. 


'I've been so stupid!' exclaims Connor, abruptly putting down his 
knife. 'I've been so 
blind .' He turns to face me, his eyes burning blue. 'Emma, I know 
who your new man is.'


 I feel a huge spasm of fear. 


'No you don't,' I say quickly. 'Connor, you don't know who it is. 
Actually, it's not anyone 
from work. I just made that up. It's this guy who lives over in west 
London, you've never 
met him, his name is … um … Gary, he works as a postman.' 


'Don't lie to me! I know exactly who it is.' He folds his arms and 
gives me a long, 
penetrating look. 'It's Tristan from Design, isn't it?'


 * * *


 As soon as our stint on the stall is up, I escape from Connor and 
go and sit under a tree 
with a glass of Pimm's, glancing at my watch every two minutes. I 
can't quite believe 
how nervous I am about this. Maybe Jack knows loads of tricks. 
Maybe he'll expect me 
to be really sophisticated. Maybe he'll expect all kinds of amazing 
manoeuvres that I've 
never even heard of. 



 I mean … I don't think I'm bad at sex. 

You know. Generally speaking. All things considered. 

But what sort of standard are we talking about here? I feel like I've 
been competing in 
tiny little local shows and suddenly I'm taking on the Olympics. 
Jack Harper is an 
international multimillionaire. He must have dated models and … 
and gymnasts … 
women with enormous perky breasts … kinky stuff involving 
muscles I don't even think I 
possess . 

How am I ever going to match up? How? I'm starting to feel sick. 
This was a bad, bad 
idea. I'm never going to be as good as the president of Origin 
Software, am I? I can just 
imagine her, with her long legs and $400 underwear and honed, 
tanned body … maybe a 
whip in her hand … maybe her bisexual glamour model friend at 
the ready to spice things 
up …

 OK, just stop. This is getting ridiculous. I'll be fine. I'm sure I'll be 
fine. It'll be like doing 

a ballet exam – once you get into it, you forget to be nervous. My 
old ballet teacher 
always used to say to us, 'As long as you keep your legs nicely 
turned out and a smile on 
your face, you'll do splendidly.' 

Which I guess kind of applies here, too.

 I glance at my watch and feel a fresh spasm of fright. It's one 
o'clock. On the dot. 


Time to go and have sex. I stand up, and do a few surreptitious 
limbering-up exercises, 
just in case. Then I take a deep breath and, with a thumping 
heart, begin to walk towards 
the house. I've just reached the edge of the lawn when a shrill 
voice hits my ears.

 'There she is! Emma! Cooee!' 

That sounded just like my mum. Weird. I stop briefly, and turn 
round, but I can't see 
anyone. It must be a hallucination. It must be subconscious guilt 
trying to throw me, or 
something.

 'Emma, turn round! Over here!'

 Hang on. That sounded like Kerry. 

I peer bewilderedly at the crowded scene, my eyes squinting in 
the sunshine. I can't see 
anything. I'm looking all around, but I can't see— 

And then suddenly, like a Magic Eye, they spring into view. Kerry, 
Nev, and my mum 
and dad. Walking towards me. All in costume. Mum is wearing a 
Japanese kimono and 
holding a picnic basket. Dad is dressed as Robin Hood and holding 
two fold-up chairs. 
Nev is in a Superman costume and holding a bottle of wine. And 
Kerry is wearing an 
entire Marilyn Monroe outfit, including platinum blond wig and 
high-heeled shoes, and 
complacently soaking up the stares. 

What's going on? 

What are they doing here? 


 I didn't tell them about the Corporate Family Day. I know I didn't. 
I'm positive I didn't. 


'Hi, Emma!' says Kerry as she gets near. 'Like the outfit?' She 
gives a little shimmy and 
pats her blond wig. 


'Who are you supposed to be, darling?' says Mum, looking in 
puzzlement at my nylon 
dress. 'Is it Heidi?' 


'I …' I rub my face. 'Mum … What are you doing here? I never – I 
mean, I forgot to tell 
you.' 


'I know you did,' says Kerry. 'But your friend Artemis told me all 
about it the other day, 
when I phoned.'


 I stare at her, unable to speak.


 I will kill Artemis. I will murder her. 


'So what time's the fancy dress contest?' says Kerry, winking at 
two teenage boys who 
are gawping at her. 'We haven't missed it, have we?'


 'There … there isn't a contest,' I say, finding my voice.


 'Really?' Kerry looks put out.


 I don't believe her. This is why she's come here, isn't it? To win a 
stupid competition.


 'You came all this way just for a fancy dress contest?' I can't 
resist saying. 


'Of course not!' Kerry quickly regains her usual scornful 
expression. 'Nev and I are 



taking your mum and dad to Hanwood Manor. It's near here. So 
we thought we'd drop in.' 


I feel a sparkle of relief. Thank God. We can have a little chat, 
then they can be on their 
way.


 'We've brought a picnic,' says Mum. 'Now, let's find a nice spot.' 


'Do you think you've got time for a picnic?' I say, trying to sound 
casual. 'You might get 
caught in traffic. In fact, maybe you should head off now, just to 
be on the safe side …' 


'The table's not booked until seven!' says Kerry, giving me an odd 
look. 'How about 
under that tree?' 


I watch dumbly as Mum shakes out a plaid picnic rug, and Dad 
sets up the two chairs. I 
cannot sit down and have a family picnic when Jack is waiting to 
have sex with me. I 
have to do something, quick. Think . 


'Um, the thing is,' I say in sudden inspiration, 'the thing is, 
actually, I won't be able to 
stay. We've all got duties to do.'


 'Don't tell me they can't give you half an hour off,' says Dad. 


'Emma's the linchpin of the whole organization!' says Kerry with a 
sarky giggle. 'Can't 
you tell?' 


'Emma!' Cyril is approaching the picnic rug. 'Your family came 
after all! And in 


costume. Jolly good!' He beams around, his joker's hat tinkling in 
the breeze. 'Now make 



sure you all buy a raffle ticket …' 


'Oh, we will,' says Mum. 'And we were wondering …' She smiles at 
him. 'Could Emma 
possibly have some time off her duties to have a picnic with us?' 


'Absolutely!' says Cyril. 'You've done your stint on the Pimm's 
stall, haven't you, Emma? 
You can relax now.'


 'Lovely!' says Mum. 'Isn't that good news, Emma?'


 'That's great!' I manage at last with a fixed smile. 


I have no choice. I have no way out of this. With stiff knees I sink 
down onto the rug and 
accept a glass of wine.


 'So, is Connor here?' asks Mum, decanting chicken drumsticks 
onto a plate.


 'Ssh! Don't Mention Connor!' says Dad in his Basil Fawlty voice. 


'I thought you were supposed to be moving in with him,' says 
Kerry, taking a swig of 
champagne. 'What happened there?'


 'She made him breakfast,' quips Nev, and Kerry giggles. 


I try to smile, but my face won't quite do it. It's ten past one. Jack 
will be waiting. What 
can I do? 


As Dad passes me a plate, I see Sven passing by. 


'Sven,' I say quickly. 'Um, Mr Harper was kindly asking earlier on 
about my family. And 
whether they were here or not. Could you possibly tell him that 
they've … they've 



unexpectedly turned up?' I look up at him desperately and his 
face flickers in 
comprehension.

 'I'll pass on the message,' he says. 
And that's the end of that. 

SEVENTEEN 
I once read an article called 'Make Things Go Your Way' which said 
if a day doesn't turn 

out as you intended, you should go back, charting the differences 
between your Goals and 
your Results, and this will help you learn from your mistakes. 

OK. Let's just chart exactly how much this day has diverged from 
the original plan I had 
this morning. 
Goal: Look like sexy and sophisticated woman in beautiful, 
flattering dress. 
Result: Look like Heidi/Munchkin extra in lurid puffy nylon 
sleeves. 
Goal: Make secret assignation with Jack. 
Result: Make secret assignation with Jack then fail to turn up. 
Goal: Have fantastic sex with Jack in romantic location. 
Result: Have peanut-barbecued chicken drumstick on picnic rug. 
Overall Goal: Euphoria. 
Overall Result: Complete misery. 


All I can do is stare dumbly down at my plate, telling myself this 
can't last for ever. Dad 
and Nev have made about a million jokes about Don't Mention 
Connor. Kerry has shown 
me her new Swiss watch which cost .4,000 and boasted about 
how her company is 
expanding yet again. And now she's telling us how she played golf 
with the chief 
executive of British Airways last week and he tried to head-hunt 
her. 


'They all try it on,' she says, taking a huge bite of chicken 
drumstick. 'But I say to them, 
if I needed a job …' She tails off. 'Did you want something?'


 'Hi there,' comes a dry, familiar voice from above my head. 


Very slowly I raise my head, blinking in the light. 


It's Jack. Standing there against the blue sky in his cowboy outfit. 
He gives me a tiny, 
almost imperceptible smile, and I feel my heart lift. He's come to 
get me. I should have 
known he would.


 'Hi!' I say, half-dazedly. 'Everyone, this is—' 


'My name's Jack,' he cuts across me pleasantly. 'I'm a friend of 
Emma's. Emma …' He 


looks at me, his face deliberately blank. 'I'm afraid you're 
needed.'


 'Oh dear!' I say with a whoosh of relief. 'Oh well, never mind, 
these things happen.' 


'That's a shame!' says Mum. 'Can't you at least stay for a quick 
drink? Jack, you're 



welcome to join us, have a chicken drumstick or some quiche.' 


'We have to go,' I say hurriedly. 'Don't we, Jack?' 
'I'm afraid we do,' he says, and holds out a hand to pull me up. 
'Sorry, everyone,' I say. 
'We don't mind!' says Kerry with the same sarky laugh. 'I'm sure 
you've some vital job to 


do, Emma. In fact, I expect the whole event would collapse 
without you!'


 Jack stops. Very slowly, he turns round.


 'Let me guess,' he says pleasantly. 'You must be Kerry.'


 'Yes!' she says in surprise. 'That's right.'


 'And Mum … Dad …' He surveys the faces. 'And you have to be … 
Nev?'


 'Spot on!' says Nev with a chortle.


 'Very good!' says Mum with a laugh. 'Emma must have told you a 
bit about us.' 


'Oh … she has,' agrees Jack, looking around the picnic rug again 
with a kind of odd 


fascination on his face. 'You know, there might be time for that 
drink after all.' 



What? What did he say? 
'Good,' says Mum. 'It's always nice to meet friends of Emma's!' 

I watch in total disbelief as Jack settles comfortably down on the 
rug. He was supposed 
to be rescuing me from all this. Not joining in. Slowly I sink down 

beside him. 
'So, you work for this company, Jack?' says Dad, pouring him a 

glass of wine. 
'In a way,' says Jack after a pause. 'You could say … I used to.' 
'Are you between jobs?' says Mum tactfully. 
'You could put it like that, I guess.' His face crinkles in a little 

smile'. 

'Oh dear!' says Mum sympathetically. 'What a shame. Still, I'm 
sure something will come 
up.'

 Oh God. She has absolutely no idea who he is. None of my family 
has any idea who Jack 


is.

 I'm really not at all sure I like this. 

'I saw Danny Nussbaum the other day in the post office, Emma,' 
adds Mum, briskly 
slicing some tomatoes. 'He asked after you.'


 Out of the corner of my eye I can see Jack's eyes brightening. 


'Gosh!' I say, my cheeks growing hot. 'Danny Nussbaum! I haven't 
thought about him for 
ages.' 


'Danny and Emma used to step out together,' Mum explains to 
Jack with a fond smile. 
'Such a nice boy. Very bookish . He and Emma used to study 
together in her bedroom, all 
afternoon.'


 I cannot look at Jack. I cannot.


 'You know … Ben Hur 's a fine film,' Jack suddenly says in 
thoughtful tones. 'A very fine 


film.' He smiles at Mum. 'Don't you think?'


 I am going to kill him. 


'Er … yes!' says Mum, a bit confused. 'Yes, I've always liked Ben 
Hur .' She cuts Jack a 


huge chunk of quiche and adds a slice of tomato. 'So, Jack,' she 
says sympathetically as 
she hands him a paper plate. 'Are you getting by financially?'


 'I'm doing OK,' Jack replies gravely. 



Mum looks at him for a moment. Then she rummages in the picnic 
basket and produces 
another Sainsbury's quiche, still in its box.

 'Take this,' she says, pressing it on him. 'And some tomatoes. 
They'll tide you over.'

 'Oh no,' says Jack at once. 'Really, I couldn't—'

 'I won't take no for an answer. I insist!'

 'Well, that's truly kind.' Jack gives her a warm smile.

 'You want some free career advice, Jack?' says Kerry, munching a 
piece of chicken. 

My heart gives a nervous flip. Please, please don't try to get Jack 
to do the successful 
woman walk. 

'Now, you want to listen to Kerry,' puts in Dad proudly. 'She's our 
star! She has her own 
company.'

 'Is that so?' says Jack politely. 

'My own travel agency,' says Kerry with a complacent smile. 
'Started from scratch. Now 
we have forty staff and a turnover of just over two million. And 
you know what my secret 
is?'

 'I … have no idea,' says Jack. 
Kerry leans forward and fixes him with her blue eyes. 
'Golf.' 
'Golf!' echoes Jack. 
'Business is all about networking,' says Kerry. 'It's all about 
contacts. I'm telling you, 


Jack, I've met most of the top businesspeople in the country on 
the golf course. Take any 
company. Take this company.' She spreads her arm around the 
scene. 'I know the top guy 
here. I could call him up tomorrow if I wanted to.'

 I stare at her, frozen in horror.

 'Really?' says Jack, sounding riveted. 'Is that so?'

 'Oh yes.' She leans forward confidentially. 'And I mean, the top 
guy.'

 'The top guy,' echoes Jack. 'I'm impressed.' 

'Perhaps Kerry could put in a good word for you, Jack!' exclaims 
Mum in sudden 
inspiration. 'You'd do that, wouldn't you, Kerry love?'

 I would burst into hysterical laughter. If it wasn't so completely 
and utterly hideous. 

'I guess I'll have to take up golf without delay,' says Jack. 'Meet 
the right people.' He 
raises his eyebrows at me. 'What do you think, Emma?' 

I can barely talk. I am beyond embarrassment. I just want to 
disappear into the rug and 
never be seen again. 

'Mr Harper?' A voice interrupts and I breathe in relief. We all look 
up to see Cyril 
bending awkwardly down to Jack. 

'I'm extremely sorry to interrupt, sir,' he says, glancing puzzledly 
around at my family as 


though trying to discern any reason at all why Jack Harper might 
be having a picnic with 
us. 'But Malcolm St John is here and would like a very brief word.' 


'Of course,' says Jack, and smiles politely at Mum. 'If you could 
just excuse me a 
moment.' 


As he carefully balances his glass on his plate and gets to his feet, 
the whole family 
exchanges confused glances. 
'Giving him a second chance, then!' calls out Dad jocularly to 
Cyril. 
'I'm sorry?' says Cyril, taking a couple of steps towards us. 
'That chap Jack,' says Dad, gesturing to Jack, who's talking to a 
guy dressed in a navy 
blazer. 'You're thinking of taking him on again, are you?' 
Cyril looks stiffly from Dad to me and back again. 
'It's OK, Cyril!' I call lightly. 'Dad, shut up, OK?' I mutter. 'He owns 
the company.' 
'What?' Everyone stares at me. 
'He owns the company,' I say, my face hot. 'So just … don't make 
any jokes about him.' 
'The man in the jester's suit owns the company?' says Mum, 
looking in surprise at Cyril. 


'No! Jack does! Or at least, some great big chunk of it.' They're all 
still looking 
completely blank. 'Jack's one of the founders of the Panther 
Corporation!' I hiss in 
frustration. 'He was just trying to be modest.'


 'Are you saying that guy is Jack Harper?' says Nev in disbelief. 
'Yes!' 
There's a flabbergasted silence. As I look around, I see that a 
piece of chicken drumstick 


has fallen out of Kerry's mouth. 



'Jack Harper – the multimillionaire,' says Dad, just to make sure. 
' Multimillionaire?' Mum looks totally confused. 'So … does he still 
want the quiche?' 
'Of course he doesn't want the quiche!' says Dad testily. 'What 
would he want a quiche 


for? He can buy a million bloody quiches!' 
Mum's eye starts flicking around the picnic rug in slight agitation. 
'Quick!' she says suddenly. 'Put the crisps into a bowl. There's one 
in the hamper—' 
'They're fine as they are …' I begin helplessly. 
'Millionaires don't eat crisps from the packet!' she hisses. She 
plops the crisps in a plastic 


bowl and hastily starts straightening the rug. 'Brian! Crumbs on 
your beard!' 


'So how the hell do you know Jack Harper?' says Nev. 


'I … I just know him,' I colour slightly. 'We've worked together and 
stuff, and he's kind 
of become a … a friend. But listen, don't act any differently,' I say 
quickly, as Jack shakes 
the hand of the blazer guy, and starts coming back towards the 
picnic rug. 'Just act the 
way you were before …' 


Oh God. Why am I even bothering? As Jack approaches, my entire 
family is sitting bolt 


upright, staring at him in awe-struck silence.


 'Hi!' I say, as naturally as possible, then quickly glare around at 
them. 



'So … Jack!' says Dad self-consciously. 'Have another drink! Is this 
wine all right for 

you? Because we can easily nip to the wine shop, get something 
with a proper vintage.'

 'It's great, thanks,' says Jack, looking a little baffled. 

'Jack, what else can I get you to eat?' says Mum, flustered. 'I've 
got some gourmet 

salmon rolls somewhere. Emma, give Jack your plate!' she snaps. 
'He can't eat off paper.' 

'So … Jack,' says Nev in a matey voice. 'What does a guy like you 
drive, then? No, don't 
tell me.' He lifts his hand. 'A Porsche. Am I right?' 

Jack meets my eye with a quizzical expression, and I stare back 
him beseechingly, trying 

to convey to him that I had no choice, that I'm really sorry, that 
basically I want to die …

 'I take it my cover's been blown,' he says with a grin. 

'Jack!' exclaims Kerry, who has regained her composure. She 
gives him an ingratiating 

smile and thrusts out her hand. 'Good to meet you properly.'

 'Absolutely!' says Jack. 'Although … didn't we just meet?' 

'As professionals ,' says Kerry smoothly. 'One business-owner to 
another. Here's my 
card, and if you ever need any help with travel arrangements of 
any sort, please give me a 
call. Or if you wanted to meet up socially … perhaps the four of us 
could go out some 


time! Play a round? Couldn't we, Emma?'


 I stare at her blankly. Since when have Kerry and I ever socialized 
together? 


'Emma and I are practically sisters, of course,' she adds sweetly, 
putting her arm round 
me. 'I'm sure she's told you.' 


'Oh, she told me a few things,' says Jack, his expression 
unreadable. He takes a bite of 
roast chicken and starts to chew it. 


'We grew up together, we shared everything.' Kerry gives me a 
squeeze and I try to 
smile, but her perfume is nearly choking me.


 'Isn't that nice!' says Mum in pleasure. 'I wish I had a camera.'


 Jack doesn't reply. He's just giving Kerry this long, appraising 
look. 


'We couldn't be closer!' Kerry's smile grows even more 
ingratiating. She's squeezing me 
so hard, her talons are digging into my flesh. 'Could we, Ems?'


 'Er, no,' I say at last. 'No, we couldn't.'


 Jack's still chewing his chicken. He swallows it, then looks up. 


'So, I guess that must have been a pretty tough decision for you 
when you had to turn 
Emma down,' he says conversationally to Kerry. 'You two being so 
close, and all.'


 'Turn her down?' Kerry gives a tinkling laugh. 'I don't know what 
on earth you—' 



'That time she applied for work experience in your firm and you 
turned her down,' says 
Jack pleasantly, and takes another bite of chicken.


 I can't quite move. 


That was a secret. That was supposed to be a secret.


 'What?' says Dad, half laughing. 'Emma applied to Kerry?'


 'I … I don't know what you're talking about!' says Kerry, going a 
little pink. 


'I think I have this right,' says Jack, chewing. 'She offered to work 
for no money … but 
you still said no.' He looks perplexed for a moment. 'Interesting 
decision.' 


Very slowly, Mum and Dad's expressions are changing. 


'But of course, fortunate for us here at the Panther Corporation,' 
Jack adds cheerfully. 
'We're very glad Emma didn't make a career in the travel industry. 
So I guess I have to 
thank you, Kerry! As one business-owner to another.' He smiles at 
her. 'You did us a big 
favour.'


 Kerry is completely puce.


 'Kerry, is this true?' says Mum sharply. 'You wouldn't help Emma 
when she asked?'


 'You never told us about this, Emma.' Dad looks completely taken 
aback. 


'I was embarrassed, OK?' I say, my voice jumping a bit. 



'Bit cheeky of Emma to ask,' says Nev, taking a huge bite of pork 
pie. 'Using family 
connections. That's what you said, wasn't it, Kerry?' 


'Cheeky?' echoes Mum in disbelief. 'Kerry, if you remember, we 
lent you the money to 
start that company. You wouldn't have a company without this 
family.' 


'It wasn't like that ,' says Kerry, darting an annoyed look at Nev. 
'There's been a … a 
crossed wire. Some confusion!' She pats her hair, and gives me 
another smile. 'Obviously 
I'd be delighted to help you with your career, Ems. You should 
have said before! Just call 
me at the office, I'll do anything I can …' 


I gaze back at her, full of loathing. I cannot believe she is trying to 
wriggle out of this. 
She is the most two-faced cow in the entire world. 


'There's no crossed wire, Kerry,' I say, as calmly as I can. 'We both 
know exactly what 
happened. I asked you for help and you wouldn't give it to me. 
And fine, it's your 
company and it was your decision and you had every right to 
make it. But don't try and 
say it didn't happen, because it did.' 


'Emma!' says Kerry, with a little laugh, and tries to reach for my 
hand. 'Silly girl! I had 
no idea! If I'd known it was important …'


 If she'd known it was important? How could she not know it was 
important? 


I jerk my hand away and stare back at Kerry. I can feel all the old 
hurt and humiliation 



building up inside me, rising up like hot water inside a pipe, until 
suddenly the pressure is 
unbearable. 


'Yes you did!' I hear myself crying. 'You knew exactly what you 
were doing! You knew 
how desperate I was! Ever since you've arrived in this family 
you've tried to squash me 
down. You tease me about my crap career. You boast about 
yourself. I spend my entire 
life feeling small and stupid. Well, fine. You win, Kerry! You're the 
star and I'm not. 
You're the success and I'm the failure. But just don't pretend to be 
my best friend, OK? 
Because you're not, and you never will be!' 


I finish, and look around the gobsmacked picnic rug, breathing 
hard. I have a horrible 
feeling I might burst into tears, any moment. 


I meet Jack's eye and he gives me a tiny, way-to-go smile. Then I 
risk a brief glance at 
Mum and Dad. They're both looking paralysed, as if they don't 
know what on earth to do. 


The thing is, our family just doesn't do loud, emotional outbursts. 


In fact, I'm not entirely sure what to do next myself. 


'So, um … I'll be going, then,' I say, my voice shaking. 'I'll be off. 
Come on, Jack. We've 
got work to do.' 


With wobbly legs, I turn on my heel and head off, stumbling 
slightly on the grass. 
Adrenalin is pumping round my body. I'm so wound up, I barely 
know what I'm doing. 



'That was fantastic, Emma,' comes Jack's voice in my ear. 'You 
were great! Absolutely … 
logistical assessment,' he adds more loudly as we pass Cyril. 


'I've never spoken like that in my life,' I say. 'I've never … 
operational management,' I 
quickly add, as we pass a couple of people from Accounts. 


'I guessed as much,' he says, shaking his head. 'Jesus, that cousin 
of yours … valid 
assessment of the market.' 


'She's a total – spreadsheet,' I say quickly as we pass Connor. 'So 
… I'll get that typed up 
for you, Mr Harper.' 


Somehow we make it into the house and up the stairs. Jack leads 
me along a corridor, 
produces a key and opens a door. And we're in a room. A large, 
light, cream-coloured 
room. With a big double bed in it. The door closes, and suddenly 
all my nerves flood 
back. This is it. Finally this is it. Jack and me. Alone in a room. 
With a bed.


 Then I catch sight of myself in a gilded mirror, and gasp in 
dismay. I'd forgotten I was in 
the stupid Snow White costume. My face is red and blotchy, my 
eyes are welling up, hair 
is all over the place, and my bra strap is showing. 


This is so not how I thought I was looking. 


'Emma, I'm really sorry I waded in there.' Jack's looking at me 
ruefully. 'I was way out of 
line. I had no right to butt in like that. I just … that cousin of yours 
got under my skin—' 



'No!' I interrupt, turning to face him. 'It was good ! I've never told 
Kerry what I thought 
of her before. Ever! It was … it was …' I tail off, breathing hard. 


For a still moment there's silence. Jack's gazing at my flushed 
face. I'm staring back, my 
ribcage rising and falling, blood beating in my ears. Then 
suddenly he bends forward and 
kisses me. 


His mouth is opening mine, and he's already tugging the elastic 
sleeves of my Snow 
White costume down off my shoulders, unhooking my bra. I'm 
fumbling for his shirt 
buttons. His mouth reaches my nipple and I'm starting to gasp 
with excitement when he 
pulls me down onto the sun-warmed carpet. 


Oh my God, this is quick. He's ripping off my knickers. His hands 
are … his fingers are 
… I'm panting helplessly … We're going so fast I can barely 
register what's happening. 
This is nothing like Connor. This is nothing like I've ever – A 
minute ago I was standing 
at the door, fully clothed, and now I'm already – he's already —


 'Wait,' I manage to say. 'Wait, Jack. I just need to tell you 
something.' 
'What?' Jack looks at me with urgent, aroused eyes. 'What is it?' 
'I don't know any tricks,' I whisper, a little gruffly. 
'You don't what?' He pulls away slightly and stares at me. 
'Tricks! I don't know any tricks,' I say defensively. 'You know, 
you've probably had sex 


with zillions of supermodels and gymnasts and they know all sorts 
of amazing …' I tail 
off at his expression. 'Nevermind,' I say quickly. 'It doesn't matter. 
Forget it.' 



 'I'm intrigued,' says Jack. 'Which particular tricks did you have in 
mind?' 
Why did I ever open my stupid mouth? Why? 
'I didn't!' I say, growing hot. 'That's the whole point, I don't know 
any tricks.' 
'Neither do I,' says Jack, totally deadpan. 'I don't know one trick.' 
I feel a sudden giggle rise inside me.

 'Yeah, right.' 
'It's true. Not one.' He pauses thoughtfully, running a finger 
around my shoulder. 'Oh, 
OK, Maybe one.'

 'What?' I say at once. 
'Well …' He looks at me for a long moment, then shakes his head. 
'No.' 
'Tell me!' And now I can't help giggling out loud. 
'Show, not tell,' he murmurs against my ear, and pulls me towards 
him. 'Did nobody ever 


teach you that?' 

EIGHTEEN

 I'm in love. 
I, Emma Corrigan, am in love. 



For the first time ever in my entire life, I'm totally, one hundred 
per cent in love! I spent 
all night with Jack at the Panther mansion. I woke up in his arms. 
We had sex about 
ninety-five times and it was just … perfect. (And somehow tricks 
didn't even seem to 
come into it. Which was a bit of a relief.) 

But it's not just the sex. It's everything. It's the way he had a cup 
of tea waiting for me 
when I woke up. It's the way he turned on his laptop especially for 
me to look up all my 
Internet horoscopes and helped me choose the best one. He 
knows all the crappy, 
embarrassing bits about me which I normally try and hide from 
any man for as long as 
possible … and he loves me anyway. 

So he didn't exactly say he loved me. But he said something even 
better. I still keep 
rolling it blissfully round my head. We were lying there this 
morning, both just kind of 
staring up at the ceiling, when all at once I said, without quite 
intending to, 'Jack, how 
come you remembered about Kerry turning me down for work 
experience?'

 'What?' 

'How come you remembered about Kerry turning me down?' I 
swivelled my head slowly 
to look at him. 'And not just that. Every single thing I told you on 
that plane. Every little 
detail. About work, about my family, about Connor … everything. 
You remember it all. 
And I just don't get it.'

 'What don't you get?' said Jack with a frown. 


'I don't get why someone like you would be interested in my 
stupid, boring little life,' I 
said, my cheeks prickling with embarrassment.

 Jack looked at me silently for a moment.

 'Emma, your life is not stupid and boring.'

 'It is!'

 'It's not.' 

'Of course it is! I never do anything exciting, I never do anything 
clever, I haven't got my 
own company, or invented anything—' 

'You want to know why I remember all your secrets?' interrupted 
Jack. 'Emma, the 
minute you started talking on that plane – I was gripped.'

 I stared at him in disbelief.

 'You were gripped?' I said, to make sure. 'By me?' 

'I was gripped,' he repeated gently, and he leant over and kissed 
me.

 Gripped!

 Jack Harper was gripped by my life! By me! 

And the point is, if I'd never spoken to him on that plane – and if 
I'd never blurted out all 
that stuff – then this would never have happened. We would never 
have found each other. 
It was fate. I was meant to get on that plane. I was meant to get 
upgraded. I was meant to 
spill my secrets. 


As I arrive home, I'm glowing all over. A lightbulb has switched on 
inside me. Suddenly 
I know what the meaning of life is. Jemima is wrong. Men and 
women aren't enemies. 
Men and women are soulmates . And if they were just honest, 
right from the word go, 
then they'd all realize it. All this being mysterious and aloof is 
complete rubbish. 
Everyone should share their secrets straight away! 


I'm so inspired, I think I'm going to write a book on relationships. 
It will be called 'Don't 
Be Scared To Share', and it will show that men and women should 
be honest with each 
other and they'll communicate better, and understand each other, 
and never have to 
pretend about anything, ever again. And it could apply to families, 
too. And politics! 
Maybe if world leaders all told each other a few personal secrets, 
then there wouldn't be 
any more wars! I think I'm really on to something.


 I float up the stairs and unlock the door of our flat.


 'Lissy!' I call. 'Lissy, I'm in love!' 


There isn't any reply, and I feel a twinge of disappointment. I 
wanted someone to talk to. 
I wanted someone to tell all about my brilliant new theory of life 
and— 


I hear a thumping sound from her room, and stand completely still 
in the hallway, 
transfixed. Oh my God. The mysterious thumping sounds. There's 
another one. Then two 
more. What on earth— 



And then I see it, through the door of the sitting room. On the 
floor, next to the sofa. A 
briefcase. A black leather briefcase. It's him. It's Jean-Paul. He's in 
there. Right this 
minute! I take a few steps forward and stare at her door, 
intrigued. 

What are they doing ? 

I just don't believe her story that they're having sex. But what 
else could it be? What else 
could it possibly— 

OK … Just stop. It's none of my business. If Lissy doesn't want to 
tell me what she's up 

to, she doesn't want to tell me. Feeling very mature, I walk into 
the kitchen and pick up 
the kettle to make myself a cup of coffee. 

Then I put it down again. Why doesn't she want to tell me? Why 
does she have a secret 
from me? We're best friends! I mean it was she who said we 
shouldn't have any secrets. 

I can't stand this. Curiosity is niggling at me like a burr. It's 
unbearable. And this could 
be my only chance to find out the truth. But how? I can't just walk 
in there. Can I? 

All of a sudden, a little thought occurs to me. Suppose I hadn't 
seen the briefcase? 
Suppose I'd just walked into the flat perfectly innocently, like I 
normally do, and 
happened to go straight to Lissy's door and happened to open it? 
Nobody could blame me 
then, could they? It would just be an honest mistake. 


I come out of the kitchen, listen intently for a moment, then 
quickly tiptoe back towards 
the front door.


 Start again. I'm walking into the flat for the first time. 


'Hi, Lissy!' I call self-consciously, as though a camera's trained'on 
me. 'Gosh! I wonder 
where she is. Maybe I'll … um … try her bedroom!' 


I walk down the corridor, attempting a natural stride, arrive at her 
door and give the 
tiniest of knocks. 


There's no response from inside. The thumping noises have died 
down. I stare at the 
blank wood, feeling a sudden apprehension. 


Am I really going to do this? 


Yes, I am. I just have to know.


 I grasp the handle, open the door – and give a scream of terror.


 The image is so startling, I can't make sense of it. Lissy's naked. 
They're both naked. She 
and the guy are tangled together in the strangest position I've 
ever, ever … her legs are up 
in the air, and his are twisted round her, and they're both scarlet 
in the face and panting.


 'I'm sorry!' I stutter. 'God, I'm sorry!' 


'Emma, wait!' I hear Lissy shout as I scuttle away to my room, 
slam the door and sink 
onto my bed. 


My heart is pounding. I almost feel sick. I've never been so 
shocked in my entire life. I 



should never have opened that door. I should never have opened 
that door. 


She was telling the truth! They were having sex! But I mean, what 
kind of weird, 
contorted sex was that? Bloody hell. I never realized. I never—


 I feel a hand on my shoulder, and give a fresh scream. 
'Emma, calm down!' says Lissy. 'It's me! Jean-Paul's gone.' 
I can't look up. I can't meet her eye. 

'Lissy, I'm sorry,' I gabble, staring at the floor. 'I'm sorry! I didn't 
mean to do that. I 
should never have … your sex life is your own affair.'

 'Emma, we weren't having sex, you dope!' 
'You were! I saw you! You didn't have any clothes on.' 
'We did have clothes on. Emma, look at me!' 
'No!' I say in panic. 'I don't want to look at you!' 
' Lookat me!' 


Apprehensively, I raise my head, and gradually my eyes focus on 
Lissy, standing in front 
of me.

 Oh. Oh … right. She's wearing a flesh-coloured leotard. 
'Well what were you doing if you weren't having sex?' I say, 
almost accusingly. 'And 

why are you wearing that?'

 'We were dancing,' says Lissy, looking embarrassed. 


 'What?' I stare at her in utter bewilderment.

 'We were dancing, OK? That's what we were doing!'

 ' Dancing? But … why were you dancing?' 

This makes no sense at all. Lissy and a French guy called Jean-
Paul dancing in her 

bedroom? I feel like I've landed in the middle of some weird 
dream.

 'I've joined this group,' says Lissy after a pause.

 'Oh my God. Not a cult—' 

'No, not a cult. It's just …' She bites her lip. 'It's some lawyers 
who've got together and 

formed a … a dance group.' 
A dance group? 
For a few moments I can't quite speak. Now that my shock's died 


down, I have this 
horrible feeling that I might possibly be about to laugh. 
'You've joined a group of … dancing lawyers.' 


 'Yes.' Lissy nods. 

An image pops into my head of a bunch of portly barristers 
dancing around in their wigs 

and I can't help it, I give a snort of laughter.

 'You see!' cries Lissy. 'That's why I didn't tell you. I knew you'd 
laugh!' 

'I'm sorry!' I say. 'I'm sorry! I'm not laughing. I think it's really 
great!' Another hysterical 

giggle bursts from me. 'It's just … I don't know. Somehow the idea 
of dancing lawyers …'

 'We're not all lawyers,' she says defensively. There are a couple 
of merchant bankers, too, 
and a judge … Emma, stop laughing!' 

'I'm sorry,' I say helplessly. 'Lissy, I'm not laughing at you, 
honestly.' I take a deep breath 
and try desperately to clamp my lips together. But all I can see is 
merchant bankers 
dressed in tutus, clutching their briefcases, dancing to Swan Lake 
. A judge leaping across 
the stage, robes flying. 

'It's not funny!' Lissy's saying. 'It's just a few like-minded 
professionals who want to 
express themselves through dance. What's wrong with that?' 

'I'm sorry,' I say again, wiping my eyes and trying to regain 
control of myself. 'Nothing's 

wrong with it. I think it's brilliant. So … are you having a show, or 
anything?'

 'It's in three weeks. That's why we've been doing extra practices.' 


 'Three weeks?' I stare at her, my laughter melting away. 'Weren't 


you going to tell me?' 
'I … I hadn't decided,' she says, scuffing her dancing shoe on the 
floor. 'I was 
embarrassed.' 


'Don't be embarrassed!' I say in dismay. 'Lissy, I'm sorry I 
laughed. I think it's brilliant. 
And I'm going to come and watch. I'll sit right in the front row …'


 'Not the front row. You'll put me off.' 


'I'll sit in the middle, then. Or at the back. Wherever you want 
me.' I give her a curious 
look. 'Lissy, I never knew you could dance.'


 'Oh, I can't,' she says at once. 'I'm crap. It's just a bit of fun. 


D'you want a coffee?' 
As I follow Lissy into the kitchen, she gives me a raised-eyebrow 
look. 'So, you've got a 


bit of a nerve, accusing me of having sex. Where were you last 
night?' 
'With Jack,' I admit with a dreamy smile. 'Having sex. All night.' 
'I knew it!'

 'Oh God, Lissy. I'm completely in love with him.' 
'In love ?' She flicks on the kettle. 'Emma, are you sure? You've 
only known him about 

five minutes.' 


'That doesn't matter! We're already complete soul-mates. There's 
no need to pretend with 
him … or try to be something I'm not … and the sex is amazing … 
He's everything I 
never had with Connor. Everything. And he's interested in me. You 
know, he asks me 
questions all the time, and he seems really genuinely fascinated 
by the answers.' 

I spread my arms with a blissful smile and sink down onto a chair. 
'You know, Lissy, all 
my life I had this feeling that something wonderful was about to 
happen to me. I always 

just … knew it, deep down inside. And now it has.'

 'So where is he now?' says Lissy, shaking coffee into the 
cafetiere. 

'He's going away for a bit. He's going to brainstorm some new 
concept with a creative 

team.'

 'What?' 

'I dunno. He didn't say. It'll be really intense and he probably won't 
be able to phone me. 

But he's going to email every day,' I add happily.

 'Biscuit?' says Lissy, opening the tin. 

'Oh, er … yes. Thanks.' I take a digestive and give it a thoughtful 
nibble. 'You know, I've 
got this whole new theory about relationships. It's so simple. 
Everyone in the world 
should be more honest with each other. Everyone should share! 
Men and women should 


share, families should share, world leaders should share!' 


'Hmm.' Lissy looks at me silently for a few moments. 'Emma, did 
Jack ever tell you why 
he had to go rushing off in the middle of the night that time?'


 'No,' I say in surprise. 'But it's his business.' 


'Did he ever tell you what all those phone calls were about on 
your first date?' 
'Well … no.' 
'Has he told you anything about himself other than the bare 
minimum?' 
'He's told me plenty!' I say defensively. 'Lissy, what's your 
problem?' 
'I don't have a problem,' she says mildly. 'I'm just wondering … is 
it you who's doing all 


the sharing?' 
'What?' 
'Is he sharing himself with you?' She pours hot water onto the 
coffee. 'Or are you just 


sharing yourself with him?' 
'We're sharing with each other,' I say, looking away and fiddling 
with a fridge magnet. 
Which is true, I tell myself firmly. Jack's shared loads with me! I 
mean, he's told me … 
He's told me all about … 
Well, anyway. He probably just hasn't been in the mood for talking 
very much. Is that a 


crime? 
'Have some coffee,' says Lissy, handing me a mug. 
'Thanks,' I say, a touch grudgingly, and Lissy sighs. 



'Emma, I'm not trying to spoil things. He does seem really lovely 
—' 
'He is! Honestly, Lissy, you don't know what he's like. He's so 
romantic. Do you know 


what he said this morning? He said the minute I started talking on 
that plane, he was 
gripped.' 
'Really?' Lissy gazes at me. 'He said that? That is pretty romantic.' 
'I told you!' I can't help beaming at her. 'Lissy, he's perfect!' 


NINETEEN 

For the next couple of weeks, nothing can pierce my happy glow. 
Nothing. I waft into 
work on a cloud, sit all day smiling at my computer terminal, then 
waft home again. 
Paul's sarcastic comments bounce off me like bubbles. I don't 
even notice when Artemis 
introduces me to a visiting advertising team as her personal 
secretary. They can all say 

what they like. Because what they don't know is that when I'm 
smiling at my computer, 
it's because Jack has just sent me another funny little email. What 
they don't know is that 
the guy who employs them all is in love with me. Me . Emma 
Corrigan. The junior. 

'Well, of course, I had several in-depth conversations with Jack 
Harper on the subject,' I 
can hear Artemis saying on the phone as I tidy up the proofs 
cupboard. 'Yup. And he felt 

– as I do – that the concept really needed to be refocused.' 
Bullshit! She never had any in-depth conversations with Jack 
Harper. I'm almost tempted 

to email him straight away and tell him how she's using his name 
in vain.


 Except that would be a bit mean. 


And besides, she's not the only one. Everyone is dropping Jack 
Harper into their 


conversations, left, right and centre. It's as if now he's gone, 
everyone's suddenly 
pretending they were his best friend and he thought their idea 
was perfect. 


Apart from me. I'm just keeping my head down and not 
mentioning his name at all. 


Partly because I know that if I do, I'll blush bright red, or give 
some huge, goofy smile or 
something. Partly because I have a horrible feeling that if I once 
start talking about Jack, I 
won't be able to stop. But mainly because no-one ever brings the 
subject up with me. 
After all, what would I know about Jack Harper? I'm only the 
crappy assistant, after all.


 'Hey!' says Nick, looking up from his phone. 'Jack Harper's going 
to be on television!' 
'What?' 
I feel a jolt of surprise. Jack's going to be on television? 
How come he didn't tell me? 
'Is a TV crew coming to the office, or anything?' says Artemis, 
smoothing down her hair. 
'Dunno.' 
'OK folks,' says Paul, coming out of his office. 'Jack Harper has 
done an interview on 


Business Watch , and it's being broadcast at twelve. A television is 
being set up in the 



large meeting room; anyone who would like to can go along and 
watch there. But we 
need one person to stay behind and man the phones.' His gaze 
falls on me. 'Emma. You 
can stay.'


 'What?' I say blankly. 
'You can stay and man the phones,' says Paul. 'OK?' 
'No! I mean … I want to watch!' I say in dismay. 'Can't someone 
else stay behind? 
Artemis, can't you stay?' 


' I'mnot staying!' says Artemis at once. 'Honestly, Emma, don't be 
so selfish. It won't be 
at all interesting for you.'


 'Yes it will!'


 'No it won't.' She rolls her eyes.


 'It will,'I say desperately. 'He's … he's my boss too!' 


'Yes, well,' says Artemis sarcastically, 'I think there's a slight 
difference. You've barely 
even spoken to Jack Harper.' 


'I have!' I say before I can stop myself. 'I have! I …' I break off, my 
cheeks turning pink. 
'I … once went to a meeting he was at …'


 'And served him a cup of tea?' Artemis meets Nick's eyes with a 
little smirk. 


I stare at her furiously, blood pounding through my ears, wishing 
just once I could think 
of something really scathing and clever to put Artemis down.


 'Enough, Artemis,' says Paul. 'Emma, you're staying here, and 
that's settled.' 



By five to twelve the office is completely empty. Apart from me, a 
fly and a whirring fax 
machine. Disconsolately I reach into my desk drawer and take out 
an Aero. And a Flake 
for good measure. I'm just unwrapping the Aero and taking a big 
bite when the phone 
rings.

 'OK,' comes Lissy's voice down the line. 'I've set the video.' 
'Thanks, Liss,' I say through a mouthful of chocolate. 'You're a 
star.' 
'I can't believe you're not allowed to watch.' 
'I know. It's completely unfair.' I slump deeper in my chair and 
take another bite of Aero. 
'Well, never mind, we'll watch it again tonight. Jemima's going to 
put the video on in her 

room too, so we should definitely catch it.'

 'What's Jemima doing at home?' I say in surprise. 

'She's taken a sickie so she can do a home spa day. Oh, and your 
dad rang,' she adds 

cautiously. 

'Oh right.' I feel a flicker of apprehension. 'What did he say?' 

I haven't talked to Mum or Dad since the debacle at the Corporate 
Family Day. I just 
can't bring myself to. It was all too painful and embarrassing, and 
for all I know, they've 
completely taken Kerry's side. 


So when Dad rang here on the following Monday, I said I was 
really busy and I'd call 
him back – and, never did. And the same thing at home.

 I know I'll have to talk to them some time. But not now. Not while 
I'm so happy. 

'He'd seen the trailer for the interview,' says Lissy. 'He recognized 
Jack and just 
wondered if you knew about it. And he said …' She pauses. 'He 
really wanted to talk to 
you about a few things.' 

'Oh.' I stare at my notepad, where I've doodled a huge spiral over 
a telephone number I 

was supposed to be keeping.

 'Anyway, he and your mum are going to be watching it,' says 
Lissy. 'And your grandpa.' 

Great. Just great. The entire world is watching Jack on television. 
The entire world 

except me. 

When I've put the phone down, I go and get myself a coffee from 
the new machine, 
which actually does make a very nice cafe au lait . I come back 
and look around the quiet 
office, then go and pour orange juice into Artemis's spider plant. 
And some photocopier 

toner for good measure. 

Then I feel a bit mean. It's not the plant's fault, after all. 


'Sorry,' I say out loud, and touch one of its leaves. 'It's just your 
owner is a real cow. But 

then, you probably knew that.' 
'Talking to your mystery man?' comes a sarcastic voice from 
behind me, and I turn round 

in shock, to see Connor standing in the doorway.

 'Connor!' I say. 'What are you doing here?' 

'I'm on my way to watch the TV interview. But I just wanted a 
quick word.' He takes a 

few steps into the office, and fixes me with an accusing stare. 'So. 
You lied to me.'

 Oh shit. Has Connor guessed? Did he see something at the 
Corporate Family Day?

 'What do you mean?' I say nervously. 

'I've just had a little chat with Tristan from Design.' Connor's voice 
swells with 

indignation. 'He's gay! You're not going out with him at all, are 
you?' 
He cannot be serious. Connor didn't seriously think I was going 
out with Tristan from 
Design, did he? I mean, Tristan could not look more gay if he wore 
leopardskin hotpants, 

carried a handbag, and walked around humming Barbra Streisand 
hits. 
'No,' I say, managing to keep a straight face. 'I'm not going out 
with Tristan.' 
'Well!' says Connor, nodding as though he's scored a hundred 
points and doesn't quite 


know what to do with them. 'Well. I just don't see why you feel it 
necessary to lie to me.' 
He lifts his chin in wounded dignity. 'That's all. I just would have 
thought we could be a 
little honest with each other.'

 'Connor, it's just … it's complicated. OK?' 
'Fine. Whatever. It's your boat, Emma.' 
There's a slight pause. 
'It's my what?' I say puzzledly. 'My boat ?' 
'Court,' he says with a flash of annoyance. 'I meant to say … the 
ball's in your court.' 
'Oh right,' I say, none the wiser. 'Er … OK. I'll bear that in mind.' 
'Good.' He gives me his most wounded-martyr look, and starts 
walking away. 
'Wait!' I say suddenly. 'Hang on a minute! Connor, could you do 
me a real favour?' I wait 

until he turns, then pull a wheedling face. 'Could you possibly man 
the phones here while 
I quickly go and watch Jack Harper's interview?' 
I know Connor isn't my number one fan at the moment. But I don't 
exactly have a lot of 
choice. 
'Could I do what ?' Connor stares at me in astonishment. 
'Could you man the phones? Just for half an hour. I'd be so 
incredibly grateful …' 
'I can't believe you're even asking me that!' says Connor 
incredulously. 'You know how 

important Jack Harper is to me! Emma, I really don't know what 
you've turned into.' 
After he's stalked off, I sit there for twenty minutes. I take several 
messages for Paul, one 
for Nick and one for Caroline. I file a couple of letters. I address a 
couple of envelopes. 
And then suddenly, I've had it. 


 This is stupid. This is more than stupid. It's ridiculous. I love Jack. 
He loves me. I should 

be there, supporting him. I pick up my coffee and hurry along the 
corridor. The meeting 
room is crowded with people, but I edge in at the back, and 
squeeze between two guys 
who aren't even watching Jack, but are discussing some football 
match.

 'What are you doing here?' says Artemis, as I arrive at her side. 
'What about the phones?' 

'No taxation without representation,' I hear myself responding 
coolly, which perhaps isn't 
exactly appropriate (I'm not even sure what it means), but has the 
desired effect of 
shutting her up. 

I crane my neck so I can see over everyone's heads, and my eyes 
focus on the screen – 
and there he is. Sitting on a chair in a studio, in jeans and a white 
T-shirt. There's a bright 
blue backdrop and the words 'Business Inspirations' behind him, 
and two smart-looking 

interviewers sitting opposite him. 

There he is. The man I love. 

This is the first time I've seen him since we slept together, it 
suddenly occurs to me. But 

his face is as warm as ever, and his eyes look all dark and glossy 
under the studio lights.

 Oh God, I want to kiss him. 


 If no-one else was here I would go up to the television set and 
kiss it. I honestly would.


 'What have they asked him so far?' I murmur to Artemis. 


'They're talking to him about how he works. His inspirations, his 
partnership with Pete 


Laidler, stuff like that.'


 'Sssh!' says someone else. 


'Of course it was tough after Pete died,' Jack's saying. 'It was 
tough for all of us. But 


recently …' He pauses. 'Recently my life has turned around and 
I'm finding inspiration 
again. I'm enjoying it again.' 


A small tingle runs over me. 


He has to be referring to me. He has to be. I've turned his life 
around! Oh my God. That's 
even more romantic than 'I was gripped'. 


'You've already expanded into the sports drinks market,' the male 
interviewer is saying. 
'Now I believe you're looking to expand into the women's market.'


 'What?' 


There's a frisson around the room, and people start turning their 
heads. 


'We're going into the women's market?' 
'Since when?' 
'I knew, actually,' Artemis is saying smugly. 'Quite a few people 
have known for a while 



—' 

I stare at the screen, instantly recalling those people up in Jack's 
office. That's what the 
ovaries were for. Gosh, this is quite exciting. A new venture! 

'Can you give us any further details about that?' the male 
interviewer is saying. 'Will this 
be a soft drink marketed at women?' 

'It's very early stages,' says Jack. 'But we're planning an entire 
line. A drink, clothing, a 
fragrance. We have a strong creative vision.' He smiles at the 
man. 'We're excited.' 

'So, what's your target market this time?' asks the man, 
consulting his notes. 'Are you 

aiming at sportswomen?'

 'Not at all,' says Jack. 'We're aiming at … the girl on the street.' 

'The "girl on the street"?' The female interviewer sits up, looking 
slightly affronted. 

'What's that supposed to mean? Who is this girl on the street?' 

'She's twenty-something,' says Jack after a pause. 'She works in 
an office, takes the tube 
to work, goes out in the evenings and comes home on the night 
bus … just an ordinary, 

nothing-special girl.'

 'There are thousands of them,' puts in the man with a smile. 

'But the Panther brand has always been associated with men,' 
chips in the woman, 


looking sceptical. 'With competition. With masculine values. Do 
you really think you can 
make the switch to the female market?'

 'We've done research,' says Jack pleasantly. 'We feel we know our 
market.'

 'Research!' she scoffs. 'Isn't this just another case of men telling 
women what they want?' 

'I don't believe so,' says Jack, still pleasantly, but I can see a slight 
flicker of annoyance 
pass across his face. 

'Plenty of companies have tried to switch markets without 
success. How do you know 
you won't just be another one of them?'

 'I'm confident,' says Jack. 

God, why is she being so aggressive? I think indignantly. Of course 
Jack knows what 
he's doing! 

'You round up a load of women in some focus group and ask them 
a few questions! How 
does that tell you anything?'

 'That's only a small part of the picture, I can assure you,' says 
Jack evenly. 

'Oh, come on,' the woman says, leaning back and folding her 
arms. 'Can a company like 
Panther – can a man like you – really tap into the psyche of, as 
you put it, an ordinary, 
nothing-special girl?'

 'Yes. I can!' Jack meets her gaze square-on. 'I know this girl.' 


'You know her?' The woman raises her eyebrows. 
'I know who this girl is,' says Jack. 'I know what her tastes are; 
what colours she likes. I 


know what she eats, I know what she drinks. I know what she 
wants out of life. She's size 
twelve but she'd like to be size ten. She …' he spreads his arms as 
though searching for 
inspiration. 'She eats Cheerios for breakfast and dips Flakes in her 
cappuccinos.' 


I look in surprise at my hand, holding a Flake. I was about to dip it 
into my coffee. And 
… I had Cheerios this morning. 


'We're surrounded these days by images of perfect, glossy 
people,' Jack is saying with 
animation. 'But this girl is real. She has bad hair days, and good 
hair days. She wears Gstrings 
even though she finds them uncomfortable. She writes out 
exercise routines, then 
ignores them. She pretends to read business journals but hides 
celebrity magazines inside 
them.'


 I stare blankly at the television screen. 
Just … hang on a minute. This all sounds a bit familiar. 
'That's exactly what you do, Emma,' says Artemis. 'I've seen your 
copy of OK ! inside 


Marketing Week ,' She turns to me with a mocking laugh and her 
gaze lands on my Flake. 


'She loves clothes but she's not a fashion victim,' Jack is saying on 
screen. 'She'll wear, 
maybe, a pair of jeans …' 



Artemis stares in disbelief at my Levis.

 '… and a flower in her hair …'

 Dazedly I lift a hand and touch the fabric rose in my hair. 
He can't—

 He can't be talking about—

 'Oh … my … God,' says Artemis slowly. 
'What?' says Caroline, next to her. She follows Artemis's gaze, and 
her expression 
changes.

 'Oh my God! Emma! It's you!'

 'It's not,' I say, but my voice won't quite work properly.

 'It is!' 
A few people start nudging each other and turning to look at me. 
'She reads fifteen horoscopes every day and chooses the one she 
likes best …' Jack's 

voice is saying.

 'It is you! It's exactly you!'

 '… she scans the back of highbrow books and pretends she's read 

them …'

 'I knew you hadn't read Great Expectations !' says Artemis 
triumphantly. 


 '… she adores sweet sherry …' 
'Sweet sherry ?' says Nick, turning in horror. 'You cannot be 
serious.' 
'It's Emma!' I can hear people saying on the other side of the 
room. 'It's Emma Corrigan!'

 ' Emma?' says Katie, looking straight at me in disbelief. 'But … 
but …' 
'It's not Emma!' says Connor all of a sudden, with a laugh. He's 


standing over on the 
other side of the room, leaning against the wall. 'Don't be 
ridiculous! Emma's size eight, 
for a start. Not size twelve!'


 'Size eight?' says Artemis with a snort of laughter. 
'Size eight !' Caroline giggles. 'That's a good one!' 
'Aren't you size eight?' Connor looks at me bewil-deredly. 'But 


you said …'


 'I … I know I did.' I swallow, my face like a furnace. 'But I was … I 
was …' 
'Do you really buy all your clothes from thrift shops and pretend 

they're new?' says 
Caroline, looking up with interest from the screen. 
'No!' I say defensively. 'I mean, yes, maybe … sometimes …' 
'She weighs 135 pounds, but pretends she weighs 125,' Jack's 
voice is saying. 
What? What ? 
My entire body contracts in shock. 


'I do not!' I yell in outrage at the screen. 'I do not weigh anything 
like 135 pounds! I 
weigh … about … 128 … and a half …' I tail off as the entire room 
turns to stare at me.

 '… hates crochet …' 

There's an almighty gasp from across the room.

 'You hate crochet?' comes Katie's disbelieving voice.

 'No!' I say, swivelling in horror. 'That's wrong! I love crochet! You 
know I love crochet.'

 But Katie is stalking furiously out of the room. 

'She cries when she hears the Carpenters,' Jack's voice is saying 
on the screen. 'She loves 
Abba but she can't stand jazz …'

 Oh no. Oh no oh no …

 Connor is staring at me as though I have personally driven a 
stake through his heart.

 'You can't stand … jazz ?'

 * * * 

It's like one of those dreams where everyone can see your 
underwear and you want to 
run but you can't. I can't tear myself away. All I can do is stare 
ahead in agony as Jack's 
voice continues inexorably. 

All my secrets. All my personal, private secrets. Revealed on 
television. I'm in such a 
state of shock, I'm not even taking them all in. 


'She wears lucky underwear on first dates … she borrows designer 
shoes from her 
flatmate and passes them off as her own … pretends to kick-box 
… confused about 
religion … worries that her breasts are too small …' 


I close my eyes, unable to bear it. My breasts. He mentioned my 
breasts . On television . 
'When she goes out, she can play sophisticated, but on her bed 
…' 
I'm suddenly faint with fear. 
No. No. Please not this. Please, please … 
'… she has a Barbie bedcover.' 
A huge roar of laughter goes round the room, and I bury my face 
in my hands. I am 


beyond mortification. No-one was supposed to know about my 
Barbie bedcover. No-one . 


'Is she sexy?' the interviewer is asking, and my heart gives a huge 
jump. I stare at the 
screen, unable to breathe for apprehension. What's he going to 
say? 


'She's very sexual,' says Jack at once, and all eyes swivel towards 
me, agog. 'This is a 


modern girl who carries condoms in her purse.'


 OK. Every time I think this can't get any worse, it does.


 My mother is watching this. My mother . 



'But maybe she hasn't reached her full potential … maybe there's 
a side of her which has 

been frustrated …'

 I can't look at Connor. I can't look anywhere. 

'Maybe she's willing to experiment … maybe she's had – I don't 
know – a lesbian fantasy 

about her best friend.' 

No! No! My entire body clenches in horror. I have a sudden image 
of Lissy watching the 
screen at home, wide-eyed, clasping a hand over her mouth. 
She'll know it was her. I will 
never be able to look her in the eye again. 

'It was a dream , OK?' I manage desperately, as everyone gawps 
at me. 'Not a fantasy. 

They're different!'

 I feel like throwing myself at the television. Draping my arms 
over it. Stopping him. 

But it wouldn't do any good, would it? A million TVs are on, in a 
million homes. People, 

everywhere, are watching. 


'She believes in love and romance. She believes her life is one 
day going to be 
transformed into something wonderful and exciting. She has 
hopes and fears and worries, 


just like anyone. Sometimes she feels frightened.' He pauses, and 
adds in a softer voice, 
'Sometimes she feels unloved. Sometimes she feels she will never 
gain approval from 
those people who are most important to her.' 


As I stare at Jack's warm, serious face on the screen, I feel my 
eyes stinging slightly. 


'But she's brave and goodhearted and faces her life head on …' 
He shakes his head 
dazedly and smiles at the interviewer. 'I'm … I'm so sorry. I don't 
know what happened 
there. I guess I got a little carried away. Could we—' His voice is 
abruptly cut off by the 


interviewer.


 Carried away.


 He got a little carried away. 


This is like saying Hitler was a tad aggressive. 


'Jack Harper, many thanks for talking to us,' the interviewer starts 
saying. 'Next week, 


we'll be chatting to the charismatic king of motivational videos, 
Ernie Powers. 
Meanwhile, many thanks again to …' 


Everyone stares at the screen as she finishes her spiel and the 
programme's music starts. 
Then someone leans forward and switches the television off. 



For a few seconds the entire room is silent. Everyone is gaping at 
me, as though they're 
expecting me to make a speech, or do a little dance or something. 
Some faces are 
sympathetic, some are curious, some are gleeful and some are 
just Jeez-am-I-glad-I'mnotyou.


 Now I know exactly how zoo animals feel. 
I am never visiting a zoo again. 
'But … but I don't understand,' comes a voice from across the 
room, and all the heads 

swivel avidly towards Connor, like at a tennis match. He's staring 
at me, his face red with 
confusion. 'How does Jack Harper know so much about you?' 

Oh God. I know Connor got a really good degree from Manchester 
University and 
everything. But sometimes he is so slow on the uptake. 

The heads have swivelled back towards me again.

 'I …' My whole body is prickling with embarrassment. 'Because 
we … we …'

 I can't say it out loud. I just can't. 

But I don't have to. Connor's face is slowly turning different 
colours. 
'No,' he gulps, staring at me as though he's seen a ghost. And not 
just any old ghost. A 

really big ghost with clanky chains going 'Whoooarr!'

 'No,' he says again. 'No. I don't believe it.' 


 'Connor—' says someone, putting a hand on his shoulder, but he 
shrugs it off.

 'Connor, I'm really sorry,' I say helplessly. 
'You're joking!' exclaims some guy in the corner, who is obviously 
even slower than 

Connor, and has just had it spelled out to him, word for word. He 
looks up at me. 'So how 
long has this been going on?' 

It's as if he opened the floodgates. Suddenly everyone in the 
entire room starts pitching 
questions at me. I can't hear myself think for the babble.

 'Is that why he came to Britain? To see you?' 
'Are you going to marry him?' 
'You know, you don't look like weigh 135 pounds …' 
'Do you really have a Barbie bedspread?' 
'So in the lesbian fantasy, was it just the two of you, or …' 
'Have you had sex with Jack Harper at the office?' 
'Is that why you dumped Connor?' 
I can't cope with this. I have to get out of here. Now. 


Without looking at anyone, I get to my feet and stumble out of the 
room. As I head down 
the corridor, I'm too dazed to think of anything other than I must 
get my bag and go. 
Now. 


I enter the empty marketing department, where phones are shrilly 
ringing around. The 
habit's too ingrained, I can't ignore them.


 'Hello?' I say, picking up one randomly. 


'So!' comes Jemima's furious voice. '"She borrows designer shoes 
from her flatmate and 
passes them off as her own." Whose shoes might those be, then? 
Lissy's?' 


'Look, Jemima, can I just … I'm sorry … I have to go,' I say feebly, 
and put the phone 
down.


 No more phones. Get bag. Go. 


As I zip up my bag with trembling hands, a couple of people who 
have followed me into 
the office are picking up some of the ringing phones. 


'Emma, your grandad's on the line,' says Artemis, putting her 
hand over the receiver. 
'Something about the night bus and he'll never trust you again?' 


'You have a call from Harvey's Bristol Cream publicity 
department,' chimes in Caroline. 
'They want to know where they can send you a free case of sweet 
sherry?' 


'How did they get my name? How? Has the word spread already? 
Are the women on 
reception telling everybody?'


 'Emma, I have your dad here,' says Nick. 'He says he needs to 
talk to you urgently …'


 'I can't,' I say numbly. 'I can't talk to anybody. I have to … I have 
to …' 



I grab my jacket and almost run out of the office and down the 
corridor to the stairs. 
Everywhere, people are making their way back to their offices 
after watching the 
interview, and they all stare at me as I hurry by.


 'Emma!' As I'm nearing the stairs, a woman named Fiona, whom I 
barely know, grabs me 
by the arm. She weighs about 300 pounds and is always 
campaigning for bigger chairs 
and wider doorways. 'Never be ashamed of your body. Rejoice in 
it! The earth mother has 
given it to you! If you want to come to our workshop on Saturday 
…' 


I tear my arm away in horror, and start clattering down the 
marble stairs. But as I reach 
the next floor, someone else grabs my arm. 


'Hey, can you tell me which charity shops you go to?' It's a girl I 
don't even recognize. 
'Because you always look really well dressed to me …' 


'I adore Barbie dolls too!' Carol Finch from Accounts is suddenly in 
my path. 'Shall we 
start a club together, Emma?'


 'I … I really have to go.' 


I back away, then start running down the stairs. But people keep 
accosting me from all 
directions.


 'I didn't realize I was a lesbian till I was thirty-three …' 


'A lot of people are confused about religion. This is a leaflet about 
our Bible study group 
…' 



 'Leave me alone!' I yell in anguish. 'Everyone just leave me 
alone!' 

I sprint for the entrance, the voices following me, echoing on the 
marble floor. As I'm 
frantically pushing against the heavy glass doors, Dave the 
security guard saunters up, 
and stares right at my breasts.

 'They look all right to me, love,' he says encouragingly. 

I finally get the door open, run outside and down the road, not 
looking right or left. At 

last I come to a halt, sink down on a bench and bury my head in 
my hands.

 My body is still reverberating with shock.

 I can barely form a coherent thought.

 I have never been so completely and utterly embarrassed in all 
my life. 

TWENTY

 'Are you OK? Emma?' 

I've been sitting on the bench for about five minutes, staring 
down at the pavement, my 
mind a whirl of confusion. Now there's a voice in my ear, above 
the everyday street 
sounds of people walking by and buses grinding and cars hooting. 
It's a man's voice. I 
open my eyes, blink in the sunlight and stare dazedly at a pair of 
green eyes that seem 
familiar. 


Then suddenly I realize. It's Aidan from the smoothie bar. 
'Is everything all right?' he's saying. 'Are you OK?' 
For a few moments I can't quite reply. All my emotions have been 
scattered on the floor 


like a dropped tea tray, and I'm not sure which one to pick up 
first.


 'I think that would have to be a no,' I say at last. 'I'm not OK. I'm 
not OK at all.'


 'Oh.' He looks alarmed. 'Well … is there anything I can—' 


'Would you be OK if all your secrets had been revealed on 
television by a man you 


trusted?' I say shakily. 'Would you be OK if you'd just been 
mortified in front of all your 
friends and colleagues and family?' 


There's a bemused silence. 


' Would you?' 
'Er … probably not?' he hazards hurriedly. 
'Exactly! I mean, how would you feel if someone revealed in 
public that you … you 


wore women's underwear?'


 He turns pale with shock.


 'I don't wear women's underwear!' 



'I know you don't wear women's underwear!' I expostulate. 'Or 
rather, I don't know that 

you don't, but just assuming for a moment that you did. How 
would you like it if 
someone just told everyone in a so-called business interview on 
television?' 

Aidan stares at me, as though his mind is suddenly putting two 
and two together. 

'Wait a moment. That interview with Jack Harper. Is that what 
you're talking about? We 
had it on in the smoothie bar.' 

'Oh great!' I throw my hands in the air. 'Just great! Because you 
know, it would be a 
shame if anyone in the entire universe had missed it.' 

'So, that's you ? Who reads fifteen horoscopes a day and lies 
about her …' He breaks off 
at my expression. 'Sorry. Sorry. You must be feeling very hurt.'

 'Yes. I am. I'm feeling hurt. And angry. And embarrassed.' 

And I'm confused, I add silently. I'm so confused and shocked and 
bewildered I feel as 
though I can barely keep my balance on this bench. In the space 
of a few minutes, my 
entire world has turned upside down.

 I thought Jack loved me. I thought he— 


I thought he and I— 
A searing pain suddenly hits me, and I bury my head in my hands. 
'So, how did he know so much about you?' Aidan's saying 
tentatively. 'Are you and he … 


an item?'


 'We met on a plane.' I look up, trying to keep control of myself. 
'And … I spent the entire 
journey telling him everything about myself. And then we went on 
a few dates, and I 
thought …' My voice is starting to jump about. 'I honestly thought 
it might be … you 
know.' I feel my cheeks flame crimson. 'The real thing. But the 
truth is, he was never 


interested in me, was he? Not really. He just wanted to find out 
what an ordinary girl-on 


the-street was like. For his stupid target market. For his stupid 
new women's line.' 


As the realization hits me properly for the first time, a tear rolls 
down my cheek, swiftly 
followed by another one.


 Jack used me. 
That's why he asked me out to dinner. That's why he was so 
fascinated by me. That's why 


he found everything I said so interesting. That's why he was 
gripped.


 It wasn't love. It was business. 



 Suddenly, without meaning to, I give a sob.

 'I'm sorry,' I gulp. 'I'm sorry. I just … it's just been such a shock.' 

'Don't worry,' says Aidan sympathetically. 'It's a completely 
natural reaction.' He shakes 
his head. 'I don't know much about big business, but it seems to 
me these guys don't get 
to the top without trampling over a few people on the way. They'd 
have to be pretty 
ruthless to be so successful.' He pauses, watching as I try, only 
half successfully, to stop 
my tears. 'Emma, can I offer a word of advice?'

 'What?' I look up, wiping my eyes. 
'Take it out in your kick-boxing. Use the aggression. Use the hurt.' 
I stare at him in disbelief. Was he not listening ? 
'Aidan, I don't do kick-boxing!' I hear myself crying shrilly. 'I don't 
kick-box, OK? I 

never have!'

 'You don't?' He looks confused. 'But you said—'

 'I was lying!' 

There's a short pause. 

'Right,' says Aidan at last. 'Well … no worries! You could go for 
something with lower 


impact. T'ai Chi, maybe …' He gazes at me uncertainly. 'Listen, do 
you want a drink? 
Something to calm you down? I could make you a mango-banana 
blend with camomile 
flowers, throw in some soothing nutmeg.' 

'No thanks.' I blow my nose, take a deep breath, then reach for 
my bag. 'I think I'll go 
home, actually.' 

'Will you be OK?'

 'I'll be fine.' I force a smile. 'I'm fine.' 

But of course that's a lie too. I'm not fine at all. As I sit on the tube 
going home, tears 
pour down my face, one by one, landing in big wet drips on my 
skirt. People are staring 
at me, but I don't care. Why should I care? I've already suffered 
the worst embarrassment 
possible; a few extra people gawping is neither here nor there.

 I feel so stupid. So stupid . 

Of course we weren't soulmates. Of course he wasn't genuinely 
interested in me. Of 
course he never loved me. 

A fresh pain rushes through me and I scrabble for a tissue. 

'Don't worry, darling!' says a large lady sitting to my left, wearing 
a voluminous print 
dress covered with pineapples. 'He's not worth it! Now you just go 
home, wash your face, 
have a nice cup of tea …' 

'How do you know she's crying over a man?' chimes in a woman 
in a dark suit 


aggressively. 'That is such a cliched, counter-feminist perspective. 
She could be crying 
over anything! A piece of music, a line of poetry, world famine, 
the political situation in 
the Middle East.' She looks at me expectantly.


 'Actually, I was crying over a man,' I admit. 


The tube stops, and the woman in the dark suit rolls her eyes at 
us and gets out. The 
pineapple lady rolls her eyes back. 


'World famine!' she says scornfully, and I can't help giving a halfgiggle. 
'Now, don't you 
worry, love.' She gives me a comforting pat on the shoulder as I 
dab at my eyes. 'Have a 
nice cup of tea, and a few nice chocolate digestives, and have a 
nice chat with your mum. 
You've still got your mum, haven't you?'


 'Actually, we're not really speaking at the moment,' I confess.


 'Well then, your dad?' 


Tacitly, I shake my head. 


'Well … how about your best friend? You must have a best friend!' 
The pineapple lady 
gives me a comforting smile. 


'Yes, I have got a best friend,' I gulp. 'But she's just been informed 
on national television 
that I've been having secret lesbian fantasies about her.' 


The pineapple lady stares at me silently for a few moments.


 'Have a nice cup of tea,' she says at last, with less conviction. 
'And … good luck, dear.' 



I make my way slowly back from the tube station to our street. As 
I reach the corner I 
stop, blow my nose, and take a few deep breaths. The pain in my 
chest has receded 
slightly, and in its place I'm feeling thumping, jumping nerves.

 How am I going to face Lissy after what Jack said on television? 
How? 

I've known Lissy a long time. And I've had plenty of embarrassing 
moments in front of 
her. But none of them comes anywhere near this. 

This is worse than the time when I threw up in her parents' 
bathroom. This is worse than 
the time she saw me kissing my reflection in the mirror and 
saying 'ooh, baby' in a sexy 
voice. This is even worse than the time she caught me writing a 
Valentine to our maths 
teacher, Mr Blake. 

I am hoping against hope that she might have suddenly decided 
to go out for the day or 
something. But as I open the front door of the flat, there she is, 
coming out of the kitchen 
into the hall. And as she looks at me, I can already see it in her 
face. She's completely 
freaked out. 

So that's it. Not only has Jack betrayed me. He's ruined my best 
friendship, too. Things 
will never be the same between me and Lissy again. It's just like 
When Harry Met Sally . 
Sex has got in the way of our relationship, and now we can't be 
friends any more because 
we want to sleep together. 

No. Scratch that. We don't want to sleep together. We want to – 
No, the point is we don't 


want to— 
Anyway. Whatever. It's not good. 
'Oh!' she says, staring at the floor. 'Gosh! Um … hi, Emma!' 
'Hi!' I reply in a strangled voice. 'I thought I'd come home. The 
office was just too … too 
awful …' 
I tail off, and there's the most excruciating, prickling silence for a 
few moments. 
'So … I guess you saw it,' I say at last. 
'Yes, I saw it,' says Lissy, still staring at the floor, 'And I …' She 

clears her throat. 'I just 
wanted to say that … that if you want me to move out, then I will.' 
A lump comes to my throat. I knew it. After twenty-one years, our 


friendship is over. 
One tiny secret comes out – and that's the end of everything.


 'It's OK,' I say, trying not to burst into tears. 'I'll move out.' 
'No!' says Lissy awkwardly. ' I'llmove out. This isn't your fault, 
Emma. It's been me 
who's been … leading you on.'


 'What?' I stare at her. 'Lissy, you haven't been leading me on!' 
'Yes I have.' She looks stricken. 'I feel terrible. I just never realized 
you had … those 
kind of feelings.' 
'I don't!' 
'But I can see it all now! I've been walking around half-dressed, no 
wonder you were 


frustrated!'

 'I wasn't frustrated,' I say quickly. 'Lissy, I'm not a lesbian.'

 'Bisexual, then. Or "multi-oriented". Whatever term you want to 
use.'

 'I'm not bisexual, either! Or multi-whatever it was.' 

'Emma, please!' Lissy grabs my hand. 'Don't be ashamed of your 
sexuality. And I 
promise, I'll support you a hundred per cent, whatever choice you 
decide to make—' 

'Lissy, I'm not bisexual!' I cry. 'I don't need support! I just had one 
dream, OK? It wasn't 
a fantasy, it was just a weird dream, which I didn't intend to have, 
and it doesn't mean I'm 
a lesbian, and it doesn't mean I fancy you, and it doesn't mean 
anything.' 

'Oh.' There's silence. Lissy looks taken aback. 'Oh, right. I thought 
it was a … a … you 
know.' She clears her throat. 'That you wanted to …'

 'No! I just had a dream. Just one, stupid dream.'

 'Oh. Right.'

 There's a long pause, during which Lissy looks intently at her 
fingernails, and I study the 
buckle of my watch.

 'So, did we actually …' says Lissy at last.

 Oh God.

 'Kind of,' I admit. 


'And … was I any good?'

 'What?' I gape at her.

 'In the dream.' She looks straight at me, her cheeks bright pink. 
'Was I any good?'


 'Lissy …' I say, pulling an agonized face.


 'I was crap, wasn't I? I was crap! I knew it.'


 'No, of course you weren't crap!' I exclaim. 'You were … you were 
really …' 


I cannot believe I'm seriously having a conversation about my 
best friend's sexual 
prowess as a dream lesbian.


 'Look, can we just leave the subject? My day has been 
embarrassing enough already.' 


'Oh. Oh God, yes,' says Lissy, suddenly full of remorse. 'Sorry. 
Emma. You must be 
feeling really …' 


'Totally and utterly humiliated and betrayed?' I try to give a smile. 
'Yup, that's pretty 
much how I feel.'


 'Did anyone at the office see it, then?' says Lissy sympathetically. 


'Did anyone at the office see it?' I wheel round. 'Lissy, they all saw 
it. They all knew it 
was me! And they were all laughing at me, and I just wanted to 
curl up and die …'


 'Oh God,' says Lissy in distress. 'Really?' 



'It was awful .' I close my eyes as fresh mortification washes over 
me. 'I have never been 
more embarrassed in my entire life. I have never felt more … 
exposed. The whole world 
knows I find G-strings uncomfortable and I don't really kick-box, 
and I've never read 
Dickens.' My voice is wobbling more and more, and then, with no 
warning, I give a huge 
sob. 'Oh God, Lissy. You were right. I feel such a complete … fool . 
He was just using 
me, right from the beginning. He was never really interested in 
me. I was just a … a 
market research project.'


 'You don't know that!' she says in dismay. 


'I do! Of course I do. That's why he was gripped. That's why he 
was so fascinated by 
everything I said. It wasn't because he loved me. It was because 
he realized he had his 
target customer, right next to him. The kind of normal, ordinary, 
girl-on-the-street he 
would never normally give the time of day to!' I give another huge 
sob. 'I mean, he said it 
on the television, didn't he? I'm just a nothing-special girl.' 


'You are not,' says Lissy fiercely. 'You are not nothing-special!' 


'I am! That's exactly what I am. I'm just an ordinary nothing. And I 
was so stupid, I 
believed it all. I honestly thought Jack loved me. I mean, maybe 
not exactly loved me.' I 
feel myself colour. 'But … you know. Felt about me like I felt about 
him.' 


'I know.' Lissy looks like she wants to cry herself. 'I know you did.' 
She leans forward 
and gives me a huge hug. 



Suddenly she draws awkwardly away. 'This isn't making you feel 
uncomfortable, is it? I 
mean, it's not … turning you on or anything—'


 'Lissy, for the last time, I'm not a lesbian!' I cry in exasperation. 


'OK!' she says hurriedly. 'OK. Sorry.' She gives me another tight 
hug, then stands up. 
'Come on,' she says. 'You need a drink.' 


We go onto the tiny, overgrown balcony which was described as 
'spacious roof terrace' 
by the landlord when we first rented this flat, and sit in a patch of 
sun, drinking the 
schnapps which Lissy got duty-free last year. Each sip makes my 
mouth burn unbearably, 
but five seconds later sends a lovely soothing warmth all over my 
body. 


'I should have known,' I say, staring into my glass. 'I should have 
known a big important 
millionaire like that would never really be interested in a girl like 
me.' 


'I just can't believe it,' says Lissy, sighing for the thousandth time. 
'I can't believe it was 
all made up. It was all so romantic . Changing his mind about 
going to America … and 
the bus … and bringing you that pink cocktail …' 


'But that's the point.' I can feel tears rising again, and fiercely 
blink them back. 'That's 
what makes it so humiliating. He knew exactly what I would like. I 
told him on the plane 
I was bored with Connor. He knew I wanted excitement, and 
intrigue, and a big romance. 
He just fed me everything he knew I'd like. And I believed it – 
because I wanted to 
believe it.' 



 'You honestly think the whole thing was one big plan?' Lissy bites 
her lip. 

'Of course it was a plan,' I say tearfully. 'He deliberately followed 
me around, he watched 
everything I did, he wanted to get into my life! Look at the way he 
came and poked 
around my bedroom. No wonder he seemed so bloody interested. 
I expect he was taking 
notes all the time. I expect he had a Dictaphone in his pocket. And 
I just … invited him 
in.' I take a deep gulp of schnapps and give a little shudder. 'I am 
never going to trust a 
man again. Never.' 

'But he seemed so nice!' says Lissy dolefully. 'I just can't believe 
he was being so 

cynical.' 

'Lissy …' I look up. 'The truth is, a man like that doesn't get to the 
top without being 
ruthless and trampling over people. It just doesn't happen.' 

'Doesn't it?' She stares back at me, her brow crumpled. 'Maybe 
you're right. God, how 
depressing.' 

'Is that Emma?' comes a piercing voice, and Jemima appears on 
the balcony in a white 
robe and face mask, her eyes narrowed furiously. 'So! Miss Inever-
borrow-your-clothes. 
What have you got to say about my Prada slingbacks?'

 Oh God. There's no point lying about it, is there? 

'They're really pointy and uncomfortable?' I say with a little shrug, 
and Jemima inhales 


sharply. 


'I knew it! I knew it all along. You do borrow my clothes. What 
about my Joseph 
jumper? What about my Gucci bag?'


 ' WhichGucci bag?' I shoot back defiantly.


 For moment Jemima flounders for words. 


'All of them!' she says at last. 'You know, I could sue you for this. I 
could take you to the 
cleaners!' She brandishes a piece of paper at me. 'I've got a list 
here of items of apparel 
which I fully suspect have been worn by someone other than me 
during the last three 
months—' 


'Oh shut up about your stupid clothes,' says Lissy. 'Emma's really 
upset. She's been 
completely betrayed and humiliated by the man she thought 
loved her.' 


'Well, surprise, surprise, let me just faint with shock,' says Jemima 
tartly. 'I could have 
told you that was going to happen. I did tell you! Never tell a man 
all about yourself, it's 
bound to lead to trouble. Did I not warn you?' 


'You said she wouldn't get a rock on her finger!' exclaims Lissy. 
'You didn't say, he will 
pitch up on television, telling the nation all her private secrets. 
You know, Jemima, you 
could be a bit more sympathetic.' 


'No, Lissy, she's right,' I say miserably. 'She was completely right 
all along. If I'd just 
kept my stupid mouth shut, then none of this would have 
happened.' I reach for the 



schnapps bottle and morosely pour myself another glass. 
'Relationships are a battle. They 
are a chess game. And what did I do? I just threw all my chess 
pieces down on the board 
at once, and said, "Here! Have them all!"' I take a gulp of my 
drink. 'The truth is, men 
and women should tell each other nothing. Nothing .' 

'I couldn't agree more,' says Jemima. 'I'm planning to tell my 
future husband as little as 
possible—' She breaks off as the cordless phone in her hand gives 
a shrill ring.

 'Hi!' she says, switching it on. 'Camilla? Oh. Er … OK. Just hang on 
a moment.'

 She puts her hand over the receiver and looks at me, wide-eyed. 
'It's Jack!' she mouths.

 I stare back in utter shock. 

Somehow I'd almost forgotten Jack existed in real life. All I can see 
is that face on the 
television screen, smiling and nodding and slowly leading me to 
my humiliation.

 'Tell him Emma doesn't want to speak to him!' hisses Lissy.

 'No! She should speak to him,' hisses back Jemima. 'Otherwise 
he'll think he's won.'

 'But surely—'

 'Give it to me!' I say, and grab the phone out of Jemima's hand, 
my heart thumping. 'Hi,' I 
say, in as curt a tone as I can muster. 

'Emma, it's me,' comes Jack's familiar voice, and with no warning, 
I feel a rush of 


emotion which almost overwhelms me. I want to cry. I want to hit 
him, hurt him …


 But somehow, I keep control of myself.


 'I never want to speak to you again,' I say. I switch off the phone, 
breathing rather hard.


 'Well done!' says Lissy. 


An instant later the phone rings again. 


'Please, Emma,' says Jack, 'just listen for a moment. I know you 
must be very upset. But 
if you just give me a second to explain—' 


'Didn't you hear me?' I exclaim, my face flushing. 'You used me 
and you humiliated me 
and I never want to speak to you again, or see you, or hear you or 
… or …'


 'Taste you,' hisses Jemima, nodding urgently. 


'… or touch you again. Never ever. Ever.' I switch off the phone, 
march inside and yank 
the line out of the wall. Then, with trembling hands, I get my 
mobile out of my bag and, 
just as it begins to ring, switch it off. 


As I emerge on the balcony again, I'm still half shaking with 
shock. I can't quite believe 


it's all ended like this. In one day, my entire perfect romance has 
crumbled into nothing.


 'Are you OK?' says Lissy anxiously.


 'I'm fine. I think.' I sink onto a chair. 'A bit shaky.' 



'Now, Emma,' says Jemima, examining one of her cuticles. 'I don't 
want to rush you. But 
you know what you have to do, don't you?'


 'What?' 
'You have to get your revenge!' She looks up and fixes me with a 
determined gaze. 'You 


have to make him pay.' 
'Oh no.' Lissy pulls a face. 'Isn't revenge really undignified? Isn't it 


better just to walk 
away?' 
'What good is walking away?' retorts Jemima. 'Will walking away 


teach him a lesson? 


Will walking away make him wish he'd never crossed you?' 
'Emma and I have always agreed we'd rather keep the moral high 
ground,' says Lissy 


determinedly. '"Living well is the best revenge." George Herbert.' 
Jemima stares at her blankly for a few seconds. 


'So anyway,' she says at last, turning back to me. 'I'd be delighted 
to help. Revenge is 
actually quite a speciality of mine, though I say it myself …'


 I avoid Lissy's eyes. 
'What did you have in mind?' 
'Scrape his car, shred his suits, sew fish inside his curtains and 
wait for them to rot …' 


Jemima reels off instantly, as though reciting poetry.

 'Did you learn that at finishing school?' says Lissy, rolling her 
eyes. 

'I'm being a feminist, actually ,' retorts Jemima. 'We women have 
to stand up for our 
rights. You know, before she married my father, Mummy went out 
with this scientist chap 
who practically jilted her. He changed his mind three weeks 
before the wedding, can you 
believe it? So one night she crept into his lab and pulled out all 
the plugs of his stupid 
machines. His whole research was ruined! She always says, that 
taught Emerson!'

 'Emerson?' says Lissy, staring at her in disbelief. 'As in … 
Emerson Davies?'

 'That's right! Davies.' 

'Emerson Davies who nearly discovered a cure for smallpox?' 

'Well, he shouldn't have messed Mummy about, should he?' says 
Jemima, lifting her chin 
mutinously. She turns to me. 'Another of Mummy's tips is chilli oil. 
You somehow 
arrange to have sex with the chap again, and then you say. "How 
about a little massage 
oil?" And you rub it into his … you know.' Her eyes sparkle. 'That'll 
hurt him where it 

counts!'

 'Your mother told you this?' says Lissy. 

'Yes,' says Jemima. 'It was rather sweet, actually. On my 
eighteenth birthday she sat me 


down and said we should have a little chat about men and women 
—' 
Lissy is staring at her incredulously.

 'In which she instructed you to rub chilli oil into men's genitals?' 
'Only if they treat you badly,' says Jemima in annoyance. 'What is 
your problem , Lissy? 


Do you think you should just let men walk all over you and get 
away with it? Great blow 
for feminism.'


 'I'm not saying that,' says Lissy. 'I just wouldn't get my revenge 


with … chilli oil!' 
'Well, what would you do then, clever clogs?' says Jemima, putting 
her hands on her 
hips. 


'OK,' says Lissy. ' IfI was going to stoop so low as get my revenge, 
which I never would 
because personally I think it's a huge mistake …' She pauses for 
breath. 'I'd do exactly 
what he did. I'd expose one of his secrets.'


 'Actually … that's rather good,' says Jemima grudgingly. 


'Humiliate him ,' says Lissy, with a tiny air of vindication. 
'Embarrass him . See how he 
likes it.' 
They both turn and look at me expectantly.


 'But I don't know any of his secrets,' I say. 
'You must do!' says Jemima. 


 'Of course you do!' 

'I don't,' I say, feeling a fresh humiliation. 'Lissy, you had it right 
all along. Our 
relationship was completely one-sided. I shared all my secrets 
with him – but he didn't 

share any of his with me. He didn't tell me anything. We weren't 
soulmates. I was a 
completely deluded moron.' 

'Emma, you weren't a moron,' says Lissy, putting a sympathetic 
hand on mine. 'You were 
just trusting.'

 'Trusting – moron – it's the same thing.' 

'You must know something !' says Jemima. 'You slept with him, for 
goodness sake! He 
must have some secret. Some weak point.'

 'An Achilles' heel,' puts in Lissy, and Jemima gives her an odd 
look. 

'It doesn't have to be to do with his feet,' she says, and turns to 
me, pulling a 'Lissy's lost 
it' face. 'It could be anything. Anything at all. Think back!'

 I close my eyes obediently and cast my mind back. But my 
mind's swirling a bit, from all 
that schnapps. Secrets … Jack's secrets … think back … 

Scotland. Suddenly a coherent thought passes through my mind. I 
open my eyes, feeling 
a tingle of exhilaration. I do know one of his secrets. I do!

 'What?' says Jemima avidly. 'Have you remembered something?' 


 'He …' I stop, feeling torn. 
I did make a promise to Jack. I did promise. 
But then, so what? So bloody what? My chest swells in emotion 
again. Why on earth am 

I keeping any stupid promise to him? It's not like he kept my 
secrets to himself , is it? 
'He was in Scotland!' I say triumphantly. 'The first time we met 

after the plane, he asked 
me to keep it a secret that he was in Scotland.' 
'Why did he do that?' says Lissy. 
'I dunno.' 
'What was he doing in Scotland?' puts in Jemima. 
'I dunno.' 

There's a pause. 
'Hmm,' says Jemima kindly. 'It's not the most embarrassing secret 
in the world, is it? I 
mean, plenty of smart people live in Scotland. Haven't you got 
anything better? Like … 

does he wear a chest wig?'

 'A chest wig!' Lissy gives an explosive snort of laughter. 'Or a 
toupee!' 
'Of course he doesn't wear a chest wig. Or a toupee,' I retort 


indignantly. Do they 
honestly think I'd go out with a man who wore a toupee ? 



'Well then, you'll have to make something up,' says Jemima. 'You 
know, before the affair 
with the scientist, Mummy was treated very badly by some 
politician chap. So she made 
up a rumour that he was taking bribes from the Communist party, 
and passed it round the 

House of Commons. She always says, that taught Dennis a 
lesson!'

 'Not … Dennis Llewellyn?' Lissy says.

 'Er, yes, I think that was him.' 

'The disgraced Home Secretary?' Lissy looks aghast. 'The one who 
spent his whole life 

fighting to clear his name and ended up in a mental institution?' 

'Well, he shouldn't have messed Mummy around, should he?' says 
Jemima, sticking out 
her chin. A bleeper goes off in her pocket. 'Time for my footbath!' 

As she disappears back into the house, Lissy rolls her eyes. 

'She's nuts,' she says. 'Totally nuts. Emma, you are not making 
anything up about Jack 
Harper.' 

'I won't make anything up!' I say indignantly. 'Who do you think I 
am? Anyway.' I stare 
into my schnapps, feeling my exhilaration fade away. 'Who am I 
kidding? I could never 
get my revenge on Jack. I could never hurt him. He doesn't have 
any weak points. He's a 
huge, powerful millionaire.' I take a miserable slug of my drink. 
'And I'm a nothingspecial 
… crappy … ordinary … nothing.' 


TWENTY-ONE 

The next morning I wake up full of sick dread. I feel exactly like a 
five-year-old who 
doesn't want to go to school. A five-year-old with a severe 


hangover, that is. 
'I can't go,' I say, as 8.30 arrives. 'I can't face them.' 


'Yes you can,' says Lissy reassuringly, doing up my jacket buttons. 
'It'll be fine. Just keep 
your chin up.'


 'What if they're horrid to me?' 


'They won't be horrid to you. They're your friends. Anyway, they'll 
probably all have 
forgotten about it by now.' 


'They won't! Can't I just stay at home with you?' I grab her hand 
beseechingly. 'I'll be 
really good, I promise.' 
'Emma, I've explained to you,' says Lissy patiently. 'I've got to go 

to court today.' 
She prises my hand out of hers. 'But I'll be here when you get 
home. And we'll have 

something really nice for supper. OK?' 
'OK,' I say in a small voice. 'Can we have chocolate ice-cream?' 
'Of course we can,' says Lissy, opening the front door of our flat. 
'Now, go on. You'll be 


fine!'


 Feeling like a dog being shooed out, I go down the stairs and 
open the front door. I'm just 
stepping out of the house when a van pulls up at the side of the 
road. A man gets out in a 
blue uniform, holding the biggest bunch of flowers I've ever seen, 
all tied up with dark 


green ribbon, and squints at the number on our house.


 'Hello,' he says. 'I'm looking for an Emma Corrigan.'


 'That's me!' I say in surprise. 


'Aha!' He smiles, and holds out a pen and clipboard. 'Well, this is 
your lucky day. If you 


could just sign here …' 


I stare at the bouquet in disbelief. Roses, freesias, amazing big 
purple flowers … 
fantastic dark red pompom things … dark green frondy bits … 
pale green ones which 
look just like asparagus … 


OK, I may not know what they're all called. But I do know one 
thing. These flowers are 


expensive. 


There's only one person who could have sent them.


 'Wait,' I say, without taking the pen. 'I want to check who they're 
from.' 


I grab the card, rip it open, and scan down the long message, not 
reading any of it until I 



come to the name at the bottom.

 Jack. 

I feel a huge dart of emotion. After all he did, Jack thinks he can 
fob me off with some 


manky bunch of flowers? 


All right, huge, deluxe bunch of flowers. 
But that's not the point. 
'I don't want them, thank you,' I say, lifting my chin. 
'You don't want them?' The delivery man stares at me. 
'No. Tell the person who sent them that thanks, but no thanks.' 


'What's going on?' comes a breathless voice beside me, and I look 
up to see Lissy 
gawping at the bouquet. 'Oh my God. Are they from Jack?' 
'Yes. But I don't want them,' I say. 'Please take them away.' 


'Wait!' exclaims Lissy, grabbing the cellophane. 'Let me just smell 
them.' She buries her 
face in the blooms and inhales deeply. 'Wow! That's absolutely 
incredible! Emma, have 
you smelt them?'


 'No!' I say, crossly. 'I don't want to smell them.' 
'I've never seen flowers as amazing as this.' She looks at the man. 
'So what will happen 


to them?' 
'Dunno.' He shrugs. 'They'll get chucked away, I suppose.' 
'Gosh.' She glances at me. 'That seems like an awful waste …' 
Hang on. She's not— 
'Lissy, I can't accept them!' I exclaim. 'I can't! He'll think I'm 
saying everything's OK 



between us.' 
'No, you're quite right,' says Lissy reluctantly. 'You have to send 
them back.' She touches 


a pink velvety rose petal. 'It is a shame, though …' 
'Send what back?' comes a sharp voice behind me. 'You are 
joking, aren't you?' 
Oh, for God's sake. Now Jemima has arrived in the street, still in 
her white dressing 


gown. 'You're not sending those back!' she cries. 'I'm giving a 
dinner party tomorrow 
night. They'll be perfect.' She' grabs the label. 'Smythe and Foxe! 
Do you know how 
much these must have cost?' 


'I don't care how much they cost!' I exclaim. 'They're from Jack! I 
can't possibly keep 
them.' 


'Why not?' 
She is unbelievable. 
'Because … because it's a matter of principle. If I keep them, I'm 
basically saying, "I 


forgive you." ' 


'Not necessarily,' retorts Jemima. 'You could be saying "I don't 
forgive you." Or you 
could be saying "I can't be bothered to return your stupid flowers, 
that's how little you 


mean to me."' 



There's silence as we all consider this. 

The thing is, they are pretty amazing flowers.

 'So do you want them or not?' says the delivery guy.

 'I …' Oh God, now I'm all confused. 

'Emma, if you send them back you look weak,' says Jemima firmly. 
'You look like you 
can't bear to have any reminder of him in the house. But if you 
keep them, then you're 
saying, "I don't care about you!" You're standing firm! You're being 
strong. You're being 
—' 


'Oh, God, OK!' I say, and grab the pen from the delivery guy. 'I'll 
sign for them. But 
could you please tell him that this does not mean I forgive him, 
nor that he isn't a cynical, 
heartless, despicable user and furthermore, if Jemima wasn't 
having a dinner party, these 
would be straight in the bin.' As I finish signing I'm red-faced and 
breathing hard, and I 
stamp a full stop so hard it tears the page. 'Can you remember all 
that?' 


The delivery guy looks at me blankly. 
'Love, I just work at the depot.' 
'I know!' says Lissy suddenly. She grabs the clipboard back and 
printsWITHOUT 


PREJUDICEclearly under my name.


 'What does that mean?' I say. 



'It means "I'll never forgive you, you complete bastard … but I'll 
keep the flowers 

anyway."'

 'And you're still going to get even,' adds Jemima determinedly. 

It's one of those amazingly bright, crisp mornings that make you 
feel that London really 

is the best city in the world. As I'm walking from the tube station 
to work, my spirits can't 

help rising a little. 

Maybe Lissy's right. Maybe everyone at work will already have 
forgotten about the 
whole thing. I mean, let's get a bit of proportion here. It wasn't 
that big a deal. It wasn't 
that interesting. Surely some other piece of gossip will have come 
along in the meantime. 
Surely everyone will be talking about … the football. Or politics or 
something. Exactly. 

I push open the glass door to the foyer with a small spurt of 
optimism, and walk in, my 
head held high. 

'… a Barbie bedspread!' I immediately hear from across the 
marble. A guy from 
Accounts is talking to a woman with a 'Visitor' badge, who is 
listening avidly. 


 '… shagging Jack Harper all along?' comes a voice from above 
me, and I look up to see a 
group of girls walking up the stairs.

 'It's Connor I feel sorry for,' one replies. 'That poor guy …' 
'… pretended she loved jazz,' someone else is saying as they get 
out of the lift. 'I mean, 

why on earth would you do that?' 
OK. So … they haven't forgotten. 

All my crisp optimism dies away, and for an instant I consider 
running away and 
spending the rest of my life under the duvet.

 But I can't do that.

 For a start, I'd probably get bored after about a week. 
And secondly … I have to face them. I have to do this. 
Clenching my fists at my sides, I slowly make my way up the 

stairs and along the 
corridor. Everyone I pass either blatantly stares at me, or pretends 
they're not looking 
when they are, and at least five conversations are hastily broken 
off as I approach. 


As I reach the door to the marketing department, I take a deep 
breath, then walk in, 
trying to look as unconcerned as possible.


 'Hi everyone,' I say, taking off my jacket and hanging it on my 
chair. 



 'Emma!' exclaims Artemis in tones of sarcastic delight.'Well I 


never!' 
'Good morning, Emma,' says Paul, coming out of his office and 
giving me an appraising 
look. 'You OK?' 


'Fine, thanks.' 
'Anything you'd like to … talk about?' To my surprise he looks as if 


he genuinely means 
it. 
But honestly. What does he think? That I'm going to go in there 

and sob on his shoulder, 

'That bastard Jack Harper used me'? 
I'll only do that if I get really, really desperate. 
'No,' I say, my face prickling. 'Thanks, but I'm OK.' 

'Good.' He pauses, then adopts a more businesslike tone. 'Now, 

I'm assuming that when 
you disappeared yesterday, it was because you'd decided to work 
from home.'

 'Er … yes.' I clear my throat. 'That's right.' 
'No doubt you got lots of useful tasks done?' 
'Er … yes. Loads.' 

'Excellent. Just what I thought. All right, then, carry on. And the 
rest of you.' Paul looks 
around the office warningly. 'Remember what I said.' 


 'Of course,' says Artemis at once. 'We all remember!' 


Paul disappears into his office again, and I stare rigidly at my 
computer as it warms up. 


It'll be fine, I tell myself. I'll just concentrate on my work, 
completely immerse myself … 
Suddenly I become aware that someone's humming a tune, quite 
loudly. It's something I 


recognize. It's …


 It's the Carpenters. 


And now a few others around the room are joining in on the 
chorus.


 'Close to yoooou …'


 'All right, Emma?' says Nick, as my head jerks up suspiciously. 
'D'you want a hanky?'


 'Close to yoooou …' everybody trills in unison again, and I hear 
muffled laughter.


 I'm not going to react. I'm not going to give them the pleasure. 


As calmly as possible I click onto my emails, and give a small 
gasp of shock. I normally 


get about ten emails every morning, if that. Today I have ninetyfive. 


Dad: I'd really like to talk … 
Carol: I've already got two more people for our Barbie Club! 
Moira: I know where you can get really comfy G-strings … 
Sharon: So how long has this been going on?!! 
Fiona: Re: the body awareness workshop … 



I scroll down the endless list and suddenly feel a stabbing in my 
heart. 
There are three from Jack. 
What should I do? 
Should I read them? 


My hand hovers uncertainly over my mouse. Does he deserve at 
least a chance to 
explain? 


'Oh Emma,' says Artemis innocently, coming over to my desk with 
a carrier bag. 'I've got 
this jumper I wondered if you'd like. It's a bit too small for me, but 
it's very nice. And it 
should fit you, because –' she pauses, and catches Caroline's eye 


– 'it's a size eight.' 
Immediately both of them erupt into hysterical giggles. 
'Thanks, Artemis,' I say shortly. 'That's really sweet of you.' 
'I'm off for a coffee,' says Fergus, standing up. 'Anybody want 
anything?' 
'Make mine a Harvey's Bristol Cream,' says Nick brightly. 
'Ha ha,' I mutter under my breath. 
'Oh Emma, I meant to say,' Nick adds, sauntering over to my 
desk. 'That new secretary in 


Admin. Have you seen her? She's quite something, isn't she?' 
He winks at me and I stare at him blankly for a moment, not 
understanding. 
'Nice spiky haircut,' he adds. 'Nice dungarees.' 
'Shut up!' I cry furiously, my face flaming red. 'I'm not a … I'm not 
… Just fuck off, all 


of you!' 



My hand trembling with anger, I swiftly delete each and every one 
of Jack's emails. He 
doesn't deserve anything. No chance. Nothing. 


I rise to my feet and stride out of the room, breathing hard. I head 
for the ladies' room, 
slam the door behind me, and rest my hot forehead on the mirror. 
Hatred for Jack Harper 
is bubbling through me like lava. Does he have any idea what I'm 
going through? Does 
he have any idea what he's done to me? 


'Emma!' A voice interrupts my thoughts and I give a start. 
Immediately I feel a jolt of 
apprehension. 


Katie has come into the Ladies without me hearing. She's 
standing right behind me, 
holding her makeup bag. Her face is reflected in the mirror next to 
mine … and she isn't 
smiling. It's just like Fatal Attraction .


 'So,' she says in a strange voice. 'You don't like crochet.' 


Oh God. Oh God. What have I done? I've unleashed the bunnyboiler 
side of Katie that 
no-one's ever seen before. Maybe she'll impale me with a crochet 
needle, I find myself 
thinking wildly. 


'Katie,' I say, my heart thumping hard. 'Katie, please listen. I 
never meant … I never said 
…'


 'Emma, don't even try.' She lifts her hand. 'There's no point. We 
both know the truth.' 


'He was wrong!' I say quickly. 'He got confused! I meant I don't 
like … um … creches . 



You know, all those babies everywhere—' 


'You know, I was pretty upset yesterday,' Katie cuts me off with an 
eerie smile. 'But after 
work I went straight home, and I called my mum. And do you 
know what she said to me?'


 'What?' I say apprehensively.


 'She said … she doesn't like crochet either.'


 ' What?' I wheel round and gape at her. 


'And neither does my granny.' Her face flushes, and now she looks 
like the old Katie 
again. 'Or any of my relatives. They've all been pretending for 
years, just like you. It all 
makes sense now!' Her voice rises in agitation. 'You know, I made 
my granny a whole 
sofa cover last Christmas, and she told me that burglars had 
stolen it. But I mean, what 
kind of burglars steal a crochet sofa cover?'


 'Katie, I don't know what to say …' 


'Emma, why couldn't you have told me before? All that time. 
Making stupid presents that 
people didn't want.'


 'Oh God, Katie, I'm sorry!' I say, filled with remorse. 'I'm so sorry. I 
just … didn't want to 
hurt you.'


 'I know you were trying to be kind. But I feel really stupid now.'


 'Yes, well. That makes two of us,' I say, a little morosely. 


The door opens, and Wendy from Accounts comes in. There's a 
pause as she stares at us 



both, opens her mouth, closes it again, then disappears into one 
of the cubicles.


 'So, are you OK?' says Katie in a lower voice.


 'I'm fine,' I say with a tiny shrug. 'You know …' 


Yeah. I'm so fine, I'm hiding in the loos rather than face my 
colleagues.


 'Have you spoken to Jack?' she says tentatively. 


'No. He sent me some stupid flowers. Like, Oh, that's OK, then. He 
probably didn't even 
order them himself, he probably got Sven to do it.' 


There's the sound of flushing, and Wendy comes out of the cubicle 
again.


 'Well … this is the mascara I was talking about,' Katie says 
quickly, handing me a tube.


 'Thanks,' I say. 'You say it … um … volumizes and lengthens?' 


Wendy rolls her eyes.


 'It's OK,' she says. 'I'm not listening!' She washes her hands, dries 
them, then gives me an 
avid look. 'So Emma, are you going out with Jack Harper?' 


'No,' I say curtly. 'He used me and he betrayed me, and to be 
honest, I'd be happy if I 
never saw him again in my whole life.' 


'Oh right!' she says brightly. 'It's just, I was wondering. If you're 
speaking to him again, 
could you just mention that I'd really like to move to the PR 
department?' 



 'What?' I stare at her blankly. 


'If you could just casually drop it in. That I have good 
communication skills and I think 
I'd be really suited to PR.' 


Casually drop it in? What, like, 'I never want to see you again, 
Jack, and by the way, 
Wendy thinks she'd be good at PR'?


 'I'm not sure,' I say at last. 'I just … don't think it's something I 
could do.' 


'Well, I think that's really selfish of you, Emma,' says Wendy, 
looking offended. 'All I'm 
asking you is, if the subject comes up, to mention that I'd like to 
move to PR. Just 
mention it. I mean, how hard is that?'


 'Wendy, piss off!' says Katie. 'Leave Emma alone.'


 'I was only asking !' says Wendy. 'I suppose you think you're 
above us now, do you?'


 'No!' I exclaim in shock. 'It's not that—' But Wendy's already 
flounced out. 


'Great,' I say, a sudden wobble to my voice. 'Just great! Now 
everyone's going to hate 
me, as well as everything else.' 


I exhale sharply and stare at my reflection. I still can't quite 
believe how everything has 
turned upside down, just like that. Everything I believed in has 
turned out to be false. My 
perfect man is a cynical user. My dreamy romance was all a 
fabrication. I was happier 
than I'd ever been in my life. And now I'm just a stupid, humiliated 
laughing stock. 



 Oh God. My eyes are pricking again. 


'Are you OK, Emma?' says Katie, gazing at me in dismay. 'Here, 
have a tissue.' She 
rummages in her makeup bag. 'And some eye gel.' 


'Thanks,' I say, swallowing hard. I dab the eye gel on my eyes and 
force myself to 
breathe deeply until I'm completely calm again. 


'I think you're really brave,' says Katie, watching me. 'In fact, I'm 
amazed you even came 
in today. I would have been far too embarrassed.' 


'Katie,' I say, turning to face her. 'Yesterday I had all my most 
personal, private secrets 
broadcast on TV.' I spread my arms widely. 'How could anything 
possibly be more 
embarrassing than that?' 


'Here she is!' comes a ringing voice behind us, and Caroline 
bursts into the Ladies. 
'Emma, your parents are here to see you!'


 No. I do not believe this. I do not believe this. 


My parents are standing by my desk. Dad's wearing a smart grey 
suit, and Mum's all 
dressed up in a white jacket and navy skirt, and they're kind of 
holding a bunch of 
flowers between them. And the entire office is staring at them, as 
though they're some 


kind of rare creature.


 Scratch that. The entire office has now turned their heads in 
order to stare at me . 



 'Hi, Mum,' I say in a voice that has suddenly gone rather husky. 
'Hi, Dad.' 


What are they doing here? 


'Emma!' says Dad, making an attempt at his normal jovial voice. 
'We just thought we'd 


… pop in to see you.'


 'Right,' I say, nodding dazedly. As though this is a perfectly 
normal course of events. 


'We brought you a little present,' says Mum brightly. 'Some 
flowers for your desk.' She 


puts the bouquet down awkwardly. 'Look at Emma's desk, Brian. 
Isn't it smart! Look at 
the … the computer!'


 'Splendid!' says Dad, giving it a little pat. 'Very … very fine desk 
indeed.'


 'And are these your friends?' says Mum, smiling around the 
office.


 'Kind of,' I say, scowling as Artemis beams back winsomely at 
her. 


'We were just saying, the other day,' continues Mum, 'how proud 
you should be of 
yourself, Emma. Working for a big company like this. I'm sure 
many girls would be very 
envious of your career. Don't you agree, Brian?'


 'Absolutely!' says Dad. 'You've done very well for yourself, 
Emma.' 



 I'm so taken aback, I can't even open my mouth. I meet Dad's 
eye, and he gives a strange, 
awkward little smile. And Mum's hands are trembling slightly as 
she puts the flowers 

down. 
They're nervous, I realize with a jolt of shock. They're both 
nervous . 
I'm just trying to get my head round this as Paul appears at the 
door of his office. 
'So Emma,' he says, raising his eyebrows. 'You have visitors, I 
gather?' 
'Er … yes,' I say. 'Paul, these are … um … my parents, Brian and 

Rachel …' 
'Enchanted,' says Paul politely. 
'We don't want to be any bother,' says Mum hurriedly. 

'No bother at all,' says Paul, and bestows a charming smile on her. 

'Unfortunately, the 
room we usually use for family bonding sessions is being 
redecorated.'

 'Oh!' says Mum, unsure as to whether he's being serious or not. 

'Oh dear!' 
'So perhaps, Emma, you'd like to take your parents out for – shall 
we call it an early 

lunch?' 
I look up at the clock. It's a quarter to ten. 


 'Thanks, Paul,' I say gratefully. 

This is surreal. It's completely surreal. 

It's the middle of the morning. I should be at work. And instead 
I'm walking down the 

street with my parents, wondering what on earth we're going to 
say to each other. I can't 
even remember the last time it was just my parents and me. Just 
the three of us, no 
Grandpa, no Kerry, no Nev. It's as if we've gone back in time 
fifteen years, or something.

 'We could go in here,' I say, as we reach an Italian coffee shop. 

'Good idea!' says Dad heartily, and pushes the door open. 'We 
saw your friend Jack 

Harper on television yesterday,' he adds casually.

 'He's not my friend,' I reply shortly, and he and Mum glance at 
each other. 

We sit down at a wooden table and a waiter brings us each a 
menu, and there's silence.

 Oh God. Now I'm feeling nervous. 

'So …' I begin, then stop. What I want to say is, Why are you here? 
But it might sound a 

bit rude. 'What … brings you to London?' I say, instead. 

'We just thought we'd like to visit you,' says Mum, looking through 
her reading glasses at 
the menu. 'Now, shall I have a cup of tea … or what's this? A frappelatte?' 



'I want a normal cup of coffee,' says Dad, peering at the menu 
with a frown. 'Do they do 
such a thing?'


 'If they don't, you'll have to have a cappuccino and spoon off the 
froth,' says Mum. 'Or an 
espresso and just ask them to add hot water.' 


I don't believe this. They have driven two hundred miles. Are we 
just going to sit here 
and talk about hot beverages all day? 


'Oh, and that reminds me,' adds Mum casually. 'We've bought you 
a little something, 
Emma. Haven't we, Brian?' 


'Oh … right,' I say in surprise. 'What is it?' 


'It's a car,' says Mum, and looks up at the waiter who's appeared 
at our table. 'Hello! I 
would like a cappuccino, my husband would like a filter coffee if 
that's possible, and 


Emma would like—'


 'A car?' I echo in disbelief.


 'Car,' echoes the Italian waiter, and gives me a suspicious look. 
'You want coffee?'


 'I'd … I'd like a cappuccino, please,' I say distractedly.


 'And a selection of cakes,' adds Mum. ' Grazie!' 


'Mum …' I put a hand to my head as the waiter disappears. 'What 
do you mean, you've 


bought me a car?' 



'Just a little run-around. You ought to have a car. It's not safe, you 
travelling on all these 
buses. Grandpa's quite right.' 


'But … but I can't afford a car,' I say stupidly. 'I can't even … what 
about the money I 


owe you? What about—'


 'Forget the money,' says Dad. 'We're going to wipe the slate 
clean.' 


'What?' I stare at him, more bewildered than ever. 'But we can't 
do that! I still owe you 


—' 


'Forget the money,' says Dad, a sudden edge to his voice. 'I want 
you to forget all about 
it, Emma. You don't owe us anything. Nothing at all.'


 I honestly cannot take all this in. I look confusedly from Dad to 
Mum. Then back to Dad. 
Then, very slowly, back to Mum again. 


And it's really strange. But it almost feels as though we're seeing 
each other properly for 


the first time in years. As though we're seeing each other and 
saying hello and kind of … 
starting again. 


'We were wondering what you thought about taking a little 
holiday next year,' says Mum. 
'With us.'


 'Just … us?' I say, looking around the table. 



'Just the three of us, we thought.' She gives me a tentative smile. 
'It might be fun! You 
don't have to, of course, if you've got other plans.' 


'No! I'd like to!' I say quickly. 'I really would. But … but what about 
…' 
I can't even bring myself to say Kerry's name. 
There's a tiny silence, during which Mum and Dad look at each 
other, and then away 


again. 


'Kerry sends her love, of course!' says Mum brightly, as though 
she's changing the 
subject completely. She clears her throat. 'You know, she thought 
she might visit Hong 
Kong next year. Visit her father. She hasn't seen him for at least 
five years, and maybe it's 


time they … had some time together.'


 'Right,' I say dazedly. 'Good idea.' 


I can't believe this. Everything's changed. It's as if the entire 
family has been thrown up 


in the air and has fallen down in different positions, and nothing's 
like it was before. 


'We feel, Emma,' says Dad, and stops. 'We feel … that perhaps we 
haven't been … that 
perhaps we haven't always noticed …' He breaks off and rubs his 
nose vigorously. 


'Cappu-ccino,' says the waiter, planting a cup in front of me. 'Filter 
co -ffee, cappuccino 
… coffee cake … lemon cake … chocolate—' 



'Thank you!' interrupts Mum. 'Thank you so much. I think we can 
manage from here.' 
The waiter disappears again, and she looks at me. 'Emma, what 
we want to say is … 


we're very proud of you.' 
Oh God. Oh God, I think I'm going to cry. 
'Right,' I manage. 

'And we …' Dad begins. 'That is to say, we both – your mother and 
I –' He clears his 
throat. 'We've always … and always will … both of us …'

 He pauses, breathing rather hard. I don't quite dare say anything. 
'What I'm trying to say, Emma,' he starts again. 'As I'm sure you 
… as I'm sure we all … 

which is to say …' 
He stops again, and wipes his perspiring face with a napkin. 
'The fact of the matter is that … is that …' 
'Oh, just tell your daughter you love her, Brian, for once in your 

bloody life!' cries Mum. 
'I … I … love you, Emma!' says Dad in a choked-up voice. 'Oh 
Jesus.' He brushes 
roughly at his eye. 
'I love you too, Dad,' I say, my throat tight. 'And you, Mum.' 
'You see!' says Mum, dabbing at her eye. 'I knew it wasn't a 
mistake to come!' She 


clutches hold of my hand, and I clutch hold of Dad's hand, and for 
a moment we're in a 
kind of awkward group hug. 

'You know … we're all sacred links in the eternal circle of life,' I 
say with a sudden swell 
of emotion.

 'What?' Both my parents look at me blankly. 

'Er, never mind. Doesn't matter.' I release my hand, take a sip of 
cappuccino, and look 
up. 

And my heart nearly stops.

 Jack is standing at the door of the coffee shop. 

TWENTY-TWO 

My heart is hammering in my chest as I stare at him through the 
glass doors. He puts out 
a hand, the door pings, and suddenly he's inside the coffee shop. 

As he walks towards our table, I feel a rush of emotion. This is the 
man I thought I was 
in love with. This is the man who completely used me. Now the 
initial shock has faded, 
all the old feelings of pain and humiliation are threatening to take 
over and turn me to 
jelly again.

 But I'm not going to let them. I'm going to be strong and 
dignified. 
'Ignore him,' I say to Mum and Dad. 
'Who?' says Dad, turning round in his chair. 'Oh!' 
'Emma, I want to talk to you,' says Jack, his face earnest. 
'Well, I don't want to talk to you.' 


'I'm so sorry to interrupt.' He glances at Mum and Dad. 'If we 
could just have a moment 


…' 


'I'm not going anywhere!' I say in outrage. 'I'm having a nice cup 
of coffee with my 
parents.' 


'Please.' He sits down at an adjoining table. 'I want to explain. I 


want to apologize.' 
'There's no explanation you could possibly give me.' I look fiercely 
at Mum and Dad. 
'Pretend he isn't there. Just carry on.' 


There's silence. Mum and Dad are giving each other surreptitious 
looks, and I can see 
Mum mouthing something. She stops abruptly as she sees me 
looking at her, and takes a 


sip of coffee. 
'Let's just … have a conversation!' I say desperately. 'So, Mum.' 
'Yes?' she says hopefully. 

My mind is blank. I can't think of anything. All I can think is that 
Jack is sitting four feet 
away. 
'How's the golf?' I say at last. 
'It's … er … fine, thanks.' Mum shoots a glance at Jack. 


 'Don't look at him!' I mutter. 'And … and Dad?' I persevere, 
loudly. 'How's your golf?' 
'It's … also fine,' says Dad stiltedly. 
'Where do you play?' asks Jack politely. 
'You're not in the conversation!' I cry, turning furiously on my 
chair. 

There's silence. 
'Dear me!' says Mum suddenly in a stagy voice. 'Just look at the 
time! We're due at the 

… the … sculpture exhibition.' 
What? 
'Lovely to see you, Emma—' 

'You can't go!' I say in panic. But Dad's already opening his wallet 
and placing a .20 
note on the table, while Mum stands up and puts on her white 


jacket. 
'Just listen to him,' she whispers, bending down to give me a kiss. 


'Bye, Emma,' says Dad, and squeezes my hand awkwardly. And 
within the space of 
about thirty seconds, they're gone. 
I cannot believe they have done this to me. 


'So,' says Jack, as the door pings shut. 
Determinedly I shift my chair round, so I can't see him. 
'Emma, please.' 



Even more determinedly I shift my chair round again, until I'm 
staring straight at the 
wall. That'll show him. 

The only thing is, now I can't reach my cappuccino. 
'Here.' I look round to see Jack has moved his chair right up next 
to mine, and is holding 

out my cup to me. 
'Leave me alone!' I say angrily, leaping to my feet. 'We have 


nothing to talk about. 
Nothing.' 
I grab my bag and stalk out of the coffee shop, into the busy 


street. A moment later, I feel 


a hand on my shoulder. 
'We could at least discuss what happened …' 
'Discuss what?' I wheel round. 'How you used me? How you 

betrayed me?' 
'OK, Emma. I appreciate I embarrassed you. But … is it really 
such a big deal?' 


'Such a big deal?' I cry in disbelief, nearly knocking over a lady 
with a shopping trolley. 
'You came into my life. You fed me this huge amazing romance. 
You made me fall in lo 
—' I halt myself abruptly, panting slightly. 'You said you were 
gripped by me. You made 
me … care for you … and I believed every single word!' My voice 
is starting to wobble 
treacherously. 'I believed it all, Jack. But all the way along, you 
had an ulterior motive. 
You were just using me for your stupid research. All the time, you 
were just … using me.'

 Jack stares at me. 

'No,' he says. 'No, wait. You have this wrong.' He grabs my arm. 
'That's not the way it 

was. I didn't set out to use you.'

 How does he have the nerve to say that? 

'Of course you did!' I say, wrenching my arm out of his grasp, 
jabbing the button at a 
pedestrian crossing. 'Of course you did! Don't deny it was me you 
were talking about in 
that interview. Don't deny you had me in mind.' I feel a fresh 
spasm of humiliation. 
'Every detail was me. Every bloody detail!' 

'OK.' Jack is clasping his head. 'OK. Listen. I don't deny I had you 
in mind. I don't deny 
you filtered into … But that doesn't mean …' He looks up. 'I have 
you on my mind most 
of the time. That's the truth, I have you on my mind.' 

The pedestrian crossing starts bleeping, telling us to cross. This is 
my cue to storm off 


and him to come running after me – but neither of us moves. I 
want to storm off, but 
somehow my body isn't doing it. Somehow my body wants to hear 
more. 


'Emma, when Pete and I started the Panther Corporation, you 
know how we worked?' 
Jack's dark eyes are burning into mine. 'You know how we made 
our decisions?'


 I give a minuscule, tell-me-if-you-like shrug. 


'Gut instinct. Would we buy this? Would we like this? Would we go 
for this? That's what 
we asked each other. Every day, over and over.' He hesitates. 
'During the past few weeks, 
I've been immersed in this new women's line. And all I've found 
myself asking myself is 
… would Emma like it? Would Emma drink it? Would Emma buy 
it?' Jack closes his 
eyes for a moment, then opens them. 'Yes, you got info my 
thoughts. Yes, you fed into my 
work. Emma, my life and my business have always gotten 
confused. That's the way I've 
always been. But that doesn't mean my life isn't real.' He 
hesitates. 'It doesn't mean that 
what we had … we have … is any less real.'


 He takes a deep breath and shoves his hands in his pockets. 


'Emma, I didn't lie to you. I didn't feed you anything. I was gripped 
by you the minute I 
met you on that plane. The minute you looked up at me and said, 
"I don't even know if 
I've got a G spot!" I was hooked. Not because of business … 
because of you . Because of 
who you are. Every single tiny detail.' The flicker of a smile passes 
over his face. 'From 



the way you pick out your favourite horoscope every morning to 
the way you wrote the 
letter from Ernest P. Leopold. To your exercise plan on the wall. All 
of it.'

 His gaze is fixed on mine, and my throat feels tight, and my head 
is all confused. And for 
an instant I feel myself wavering.

 Just for an instant. 

'That's all very well,' I say, my voice shaking. 'But you 
embarrassed me. You humiliated 
me!' I turn on my heel and start striding across the road again. 

'I didn't mean to say so much,' says Jack, following me. 'I didn't 
mean to say anything. 
Believe me, Emma, I regret it as much as you do. The minute we 
stopped, I asked them to 
cut out that part. They promised me they would. I was …' He 
shakes his head. 'I don't 
know, goaded, I got carried away …' 

'You got carried away ?' I feel a renewed surge of outrage. 'Jack, 
you exposed every 

single detail about me!'

 'I know, and I'm sorry …' 

'You told the world about my underwear … and my sex life … and 
my Barbie bedcover 

and you didn't tell them it was ironic …'

 'Emma, I'm sorry—'

 'You told them how much I weigh!' My voice rises to a shriek. 
'And you got it wrong !' 


 'Emma, really, I'm sorry—' 

'Sorry isn't good enough!' I wheel round furiously round to face 
him. 'You ruined my 
life!' 
'I ruined your life?' He gives me a strange look. 'Is your life 

ruined? Is it such a disaster 

for people to know the truth about you?' 
'I …I …' For a moment I flounder. 'You don't know what it was like 
for me,' I say, on 
firmer ground. 'Everyone was laughing at me. Everyone was 
teasing me, in the whole 

office. Artemis was teasing me—' 
'I'll fire her,' Jack cuts me off firmly. 
I'm so shocked, I give a half-giggle, then turn it into a cough. 
'And Nick was teasing me—' 

'I'll fire him too.' Jack thinks for a moment. 'How about this: 
anyone who teased you, I'll 
fire.' 
This time I can't help giggling out loud. 
'You won't have a company left.'

 'So be it. That'll teach me. That'll teach me to be so thoughtless.' 
For a moment we stare at each other in the sunshine. My heart's 
beating quickly. I'm not 


quite sure what to think. 

'Would you like to buy some lucky heather?' A woman in a pink 
sweatshirt suddenly 
thrusts a foil-wrapped sprig in my face, and I shake my head 
irritably.

 'Lucky heather, sir?' 

'I'll take the whole basket,' says Jack. 'I think I need it.' He reaches 
into his wallet, gives 
the woman two .50 notes, and takes the basket from her. All the 
time, his eyes are fixed 
on mine. 

'Emma, I want to make this up to you,' he says, as the woman 
hurries away. 'Could we 
have lunch? A drink? A … a smoothie?' His face crinkles into a tiny 
smile, but I don't 
smile back. I'm too confused to smile. I can feel part of me 
starting to unbend; I can feel 
part of me starting to believe him. Wanting to forgive him. But my 
mind is still jumbled 
up. Things are still wrong somewhere.

 'I don't know,' I say, rubbing my nose. 
'Things were going so well, before I had to go and fuck it up.' 
'Were they?' I say. 
'Weren't they?' Jack hesitates, gazing at me over the heather. 'I 
kind of thought they 

were.' 
My mind is buzzing. There are things I need to say. There are 
things I need to get into the 

open. A thought crystallizes in my head. 


 'Jack … what were you doing in Scotland? When we first met.' 
At once, Jack's expression changes. His face closes up and he 

looks away. 
'Emma, I'm afraid I can't tell you that.' 
'Why not?' I say, trying to sound light. 
'It's … complicated.' 

'OK, then.' I think for a moment. 'Where did you go rushing off to 
that night with Sven? 
When you had to cut our date short.' 
Jack sighs. 
'Emma—' 
'How about the night you had all those calls? What were those 
about?' 

This time, Jack doesn't even bother answering. 
'I see.' I push my hair back, trying to stay calm. 'Jack, did it ever 
occur to you that in all 


our time together, you hardly told me anything about yourself?' 

'I … guess I'm a private person,' says Jack. 'Is it such a big deal?' 

'It's quite a big deal to me. I shared everything with you. Like you 
said. All my thoughts, 
all my worries, everything. And you shared nothing with me.' 


'That's not true—' He steps forward, still holding the cumbersome 
basket, and several 
sprigs of heather fall to the ground. 


'Practically nothing, then.' I close my eyes briefly, trying to sort 
my thoughts. 'Jack, 
relationships are all about trust and equality. If one person shares, 
then the other person 
should share, too. I mean, you didn't even tell me you were going 
to be on television.' 


'It was just a dumb interview, for Chrissakes!' A girl with six 
shopping bags knocks yet 
more heather out of Jack's basket, and in frustration he dumps it 
on a passing motorcycle 
courier's pannier. 'Emma, you're over-reacting.'


 'I told you all my secrets,' I say stubbornly. 'You didn't tell me any 
of yours.'


 Jack gives a sigh.


 'With all due respect, Emma, I think it's a little different—'


 'What?' I stare at him in shock. 'Why … why should it be any 
different?' 



 'You have to understand. I have things in my life which are very 
sensitive … complicated 
… very important …' 


'And I don't ?' My voice bursts from me like a rocket. 'You think my 
secrets are less 
important than yours? You think I'm less hurt by you blurting them 
out on television?' I'm 
shaking all over, with fury, with disappointment. 'I suppose that's 
because you're so huge 
and important and I'm – what am I, again, Jack?' I can feel my 
eyes glittering with tears. 
'A nothing-special girl? An "ordinary, nothing-special girl"?'


 Jack winces, and I can see I've hit home. He closes his eyes and 
for a long time I think he 
isn't going to speak. 


'I didn't mean to use those words,' he says, rubbing his forehead. 
'The minute I said them, 
I wished I could take them back. I was … I was trying to evoke 
something very different 
from that … a kind of image He looks up. 'Emma, you have to 
know I didn't mean—' 


'I'm going to ask you again!' I say, my heart pounding. 'What were 
you doing in 
Scotland?' 


There's silence. As I meet Jack's eyes, I know he's not going to tell 
me. He knows this is 
important to me and he's still not going to tell me. 


'Fine,' I say, my voice lurching slightly. 'That's fine. I'm obviously 
not as important as 
you. I'm just some amusing girl who provides you with 
entertainment on flights and gives 
you ideas for your business.' 



 'Emma—' 


'The thing is, Jack, that's not a real relationship. A real relationship 
is two-way. A real 
relationship is based on equality. And trust.' I swallow the lump in 
my throat. 'So why 
don't you just go and be with someone on your level, who you can 
share your precious 
secrets with? Because you obviously can't share them with me.' 


I turn sharply before he can say anything else, and stalk away, 
two tears rolling down my 
cheeks, trampling the lucky heather underfoot. 


I don't get home until much later that evening. But I'm still 
smarting from our argument. 
I have a throbbing headache, and I feel on the verge of tears.


 I open the door of the flat to find Lissy and Jemima in a full-scale 
argument about animal 
rights. 


'The mink like being made into coats—' Jemima is saying as I push 
open the door to the 
living room. She breaks off and looks up. 'Emma! Are you all 
right?' 


'No.' I sink down onto the sofa and wrap myself up in the chenille 
throw which Lissy's 


mum gave her for Christmas. 'I had a huge row with Jack.'


 'With Jack ?'


 'You saw him?'


 'He came to … well, to apologize, I guess.'


 Lissy and Jemima exchange looks. 



 'What happened?' says Lissy, hugging her knees. 'What did he 
say?' 


I'm silent for a few seconds, trying to remember exactly what he 
did say. It's all a bit 


jumbled up in my head now. 


'He said … he didn't ever mean to use me,' I say at last. 'He said I 
got in his thoughts. He 
said he'd fire everyone in the company who teased me.' I can't 
help giving a half-giggle. 


'Really?' says Lissy. 'Gosh. That's quite romant—' She coughs, and 
pulls an apologetic 
face. 'Sorry.'


 'He said he was really sorry for what happened, and he didn't 
mean to say all that stuff on 


the TV, and that our romance was … Anyway. He said a lot of 
things. But then he said …' 
My heart beats with fresh indignation. 'He said his secrets were 
more important than 
mine.' 


There's a huge gasp of outrage. 
'No!' says Lissy. 
'Bastard!' says Jemima. 'What secrets?' 
'I asked him about Scotland. And rushing off from the date.' I 
meet Lissy's eyes. 'And all 


those things he would never talk to me about.'


 'And what did he say?' says Lissy. 



'He wouldn't tell me.' I feel another sting of humiliation. 'He said it 
was too "sensitive 


and complicated".' 


'Sensitive and complicated ?' Jemima is staring at me, galvanized. 
'Jack has a sensitive 
and complicated secret? You never mentioned this before! Emma, 
this is totally perfect. 
You find out what it is – and then you expose it!' 


I stare at her, my heart beating hard. God, she's right. I could do 
it. I could get back at 


Jack. I could make him hurt like I've been hurt.


 'But I have no idea what it is,' I say at last. 


'You can find out!' says Jemima. 'That's easy enough. The point is, 
you know he's hiding 


something.' 


'There's definitely some kind of mystery,' says Lissy thoughtfully. 
'He has all these phone 
calls he won't talk about, he rushes off mysteriously from your 
date—'


 'He rushed off mysteriously?' says Jemima avidly. 'Where? Did he 
say anything? Did you 
overhear anything?' 


'No!' I say, flushing slightly. 'Of course not. I don't … I would never 
eavesdrop on 


people!' 



 Jemima gives me a close look. 


'Don't give me that. Yes you did. You did hear something. Come 
on, Emma. What was 


it?' 


My mind flashes back to that evening. Sitting on the bench, 
sipping the pink cocktail. 
The breeze is blowing on my face, Jack and Sven are talking 
behind me in low voices … 


'It was nothing much,' I say reluctantly. 'I just heard him say 
something about having to 
transfer something … and Plan B … and something being urgent 
…'


 'Transfer what?' says Lissy suspiciously. 'Funds?'


 'I dunno. And they said something about flying back up to 
Glasgow.'


 Jemima looks beside herself. 


'Emma, I do not believe this. You've had this information all this 
time? This has to be 
something juicy. It has to be. If only we knew more.' She exhales 
in frustration. 'You 
didn't have a Dictaphone or anything with you?' 


'Of course I didn't!' I say with a little laugh. 'It was a date! Do you 
normally take a 
Dictaphone on a …' I tail off incredulously at her expression. 
'Jemima. You don't.' 


'Not always ,' she says, with a defensive shrug. 'Just if I think it 
might come in … 



Anyway. That's irrelevant. The point is, you have information, 
Emma. You have power. 
You find out what this is all about – and then you expose him. 
That'll show Jack Harper 
who's boss. That'll get your revenge!' 


I stare back at her determined face, and for a moment I feel a 
sheer, powerful 
exhilaration bubbling through me. That would pay Jack back. That 
would show him. 
Then he'd be sorry! Then he'd see I'm not just some nothing, 
nobody girl. Then he'd see. 
Then he'd see.


 'So …' I lick my lips. 'So how would I do it?' 


'First we try to work out as much as we can ourselves,' says 
Jemima. 'Then, I've got 
access to various … people who can help get more information.' 
She gives me a tiny 


wink. 'Discreetly.'


 'Private detectives?' says Lissy in disbelief. 'Are you for real?'


 'And then we expose him! Mummy's got contacts at all the 
papers …' 


My head is thumping. Am I really talking about doing this? Am I 
really talking about 


getting revenge on Jack? 


'A very good place to start is rubbish bins,' adds Jemima 
knowledgeably. 'You can find 
all sorts of things just by looking through somebody's trash.' 


And all of a sudden sanity comes flying in through the window. 



'Rubbish bins?' I say in horror. 'I'm not looking in any rubbish bins! 
In fact, I'm not doing 


this, full stop. It's a crazy idea.' 


'You can't get all precious now, Emma!' says Jemima tartly, 
flicking back her hair. 'How 
else are you going to find out what his secret is?' 


'Maybe I don't want to find out what his secret is,' I retort, feeling 
a sting of pride. 
'Maybe I'm not interested.'


 I wrap the chenille throw around me even more tightly, and stare 
at my toes miserably. 


So Jack's got some huge secret he can't trust me with. Well, fine. 
Let him keep it. I'm not 
going to demean myself by grubbing after it. I'm not going to start 
poking around rubbish 
bins. I don't care what it is. I don't care about him.


 'I want to forget about it,' I say, my face closing up. 'I want to 
move on.' 


'No you don't!' retorts Jemima. 'Don't be stupid, Emma. This is 
your big chance for 
revenge. We are so going to get him.' I have never seen Jemima 
look so animated in my 
life. She reaches for her bag and gets out a tiny lilac Smythson 
notebook, together with a 
Tiffany pen. 'Right, so what do we know? Glasgow … Plan B … 
transfer …' 


The Panther Corporation doesn't have offices in Scotland, does it?' 
says Lissy 
thoughtfully. 



I turn my head, and stare at her in disbelief. She's scribbling on a 
pad of legal paper, with 
exactly the same preoccupied look she gets when she's solving 
one of her geeky puzzles. 
I can see the words 'Glasgow', 'transfer' and 'Plan B', and a place 
where she's jumbled up 
all the letters in 'Scotland' and tried to make a new word out of 
them.

 For God's sake.

 'Lissy, what are you doing?' 

'I'm just … fiddling around,' she says, and blushes. 'I might go and 
look some stuff up on 
the Internet, just out of interest.'

 'Look, just stop it, both of you!' I say. 'If Jack doesn't want to tell 
me what his secret is … 
then I don't want to know.' 

Suddenly I feel completely drained by the day. And kind of 
bruised. I'm not interested in 
Jack's mysterious secret life. I don't want to think about it any 
more. I want to have a long 
hot bath and go to bed and just forget I ever met him. 

TWENTY-THREE

 Except of course I can't. 

I can't forget about Jack. I can't forget about our argument. 

His face keeps appearing in my head when I don't want it to. The 
way he stared at me in 
the sunlight, his face all crinkled up. The way he bought the lucky 
heather. 


I lie in bed, my heart hammering, going over it again and again. 
Feeling the same smart 
of hurt. The same disappointment. 
I told him everything about myself. Everything . And he won't 
even tell me one— 
Anyway. Anyway.

 I don't care. 
I'm not going to think about him any more. He can do what he 
likes. He can keep his 

stupid secrets. 
Good luck to him. That's it. He's out of my brain. 
Gone for good. 
I stare at the darkened ceiling for a few moments. 

And what did he mean by that, anyway? Is it such a disaster for 
people to know the truth 
about you ? 
He can talk. He can so talk. Mr Mystery. Mr Sensitive and 
Complicated. 
I should have said that. I should have said—

 No. Stop thinking about it. Stop thinking about him. It's over. 
As I pad into the kitchen the next morning to make a cup of tea, 
I'm fully resolved. I'm 


not even going to think about Jack from now on. Finito. Fin. The 
End. 
'OK. I have three theories.' Lissy arrives breathlessly at the door 
of the kitchen in her 

pyjamas, holding her legal pad.

 'What?' I look up blearily.

 'Jack's big secret. I have three theories.' 

'Only three?' says Jemima, appearing behind her in her white 
robe, clutching her 
Smythson notebook. 'I've got eight!' 

' Eight?' Lissy stares at her, affronted. 
'I don't want to hear any theories,' I say. 'Look, both of you, this 
has been really painful 

for me. Can't you just respect my feelings and drop it?' 

They both look at me blankly for a second, then turn back to each 
other.

 ' Eight?' says Lissy again. 'How did you get eight?' 

'Easy-peasy. But I'm sure yours are very good too,' says Jemima 
kindly. 'Why don't you 

go first?' 

'OK,' says Lissy with a look of annoyance, and clears her throat. 
'Number one: He's 
relocating the whole of the Panther Corporation to Scotland. He 
was up there 
reconnoitring, and didn't want you spreading rumours. Number 
two: He's involved in 


some kind of white-collar fraud …' 
'What?' I stare at her. 'Why do you say that?' 
'I looked up the accountants who audited the last Panther 
Corporation accounts, and 
they've been involved in a few big scandals recently. Which 
doesn't prove anything, but if 
he's acting shadily and talking about transfers …' She pulls a face 
and I stare back, 

disconcerted. 
Jack a fraudster? No. He couldn't be. He couldn't. 
Not that I care one way or the other. 

'Can I say that both of those sound highly unlikely to me?' says 
Jemima with raised 
eyebrows.

 'Well, what's your theory, then?' says Lissy crossly. 
'Plastic surgery, of course!' she says triumphantly. 'He has a facelift 
and he doesn't want 

anyone to know, so he recuperates in Scotland. And I know what 
the B is in Plan B.'

 'What?' I say suspiciously. 
'Botox!' says Jemima with a flourish. 'That's why he rushed off 
from your date. To have 

his fine lines smoothed. The doctor suddenly had a spare 
appointment, his friend came to 
tell him—' 

What planet does Jemima come from? 


 'Jack would never have Botox!' I say. ' Ora face-lift!' 


'You don't know that!' She gives me a telling look. 'Compare a 
recent photo of Jack with 
an old one, and I bet you see a difference—'


 'OK, Miss Marple,' says Lissy, rolling her eyes. 'So what are your 
other seven theories?' 


'Let me see …' Jemima turns the page of her notebook. 'OK, this 
one's rather good He's 
in the Mafia.' She pauses for effect. 'His father was shot, and he's 
planning to murder the 
heads of all the other families.'


 'Jemima, that's The Godfather ,' says Lissy. 


'Oh.' She looks put out. 'I thought it seemed a bit familiar.' She 
crosses it out. 'Well, 


here's another one. He has an autistic brother …'


 ' Rain Man.' 


'Oh. Damn.' She pulls a face and looks at her list again. 'So maybe 
not that after all … or 


that …' She start crossing entries out. 'OK. But I do have one 
more.' She raises her head. 
'He's got another woman.'


 I stare at her, feeling a jolt. Another woman. I never even thought 
of that.


 'That was my last theory, too,' says Lissy apologetically. 'Another 
woman.' 



 'You both think it's another woman?' I look from face to face. 'But 
… but why?' 


Suddenly I feel really small. And stupid. Has Jack been playing me 
along? Have I been 
even more naive than I originally thought? 


'It just seems quite a likely explanation,' says Jemima with a 
shrug. 'He's having some 
clandestine affair with a woman in Scotland. He was paying her a 
secret visit when he 
met you. She keeps phoning him, maybe they were having a row, 
then she comes to 
London unexpectedly, so he has to dash off from your date.'


 Lissy glances at my stricken face. 
'But maybe he's relocating the company,' she says encouragingly. 
'Or a fraudster.' 
'Well, I don't care what he's doing,' I say, my face burning. 'It's his 
business. And he's 


welcome to it.' 


I get a pint of milk from the fridge and slam it shut, my hands 
trembling slightly. 
Sensitive and complicated. Is that code for 'I'm seeing someone 
else?' 


Well, fine. Let him have another woman. I don't care. 


'It's your business too!' says Jemima. 'If you're going to get 
revenge—' 
Oh for God's sake. 
'I don't want to get revenge, OK?' I say, turning round to face her. 
'It's not healthy. I want 


to … heal my wounds and move on.' 



'Yes, and shall I tell you another word for revenge?' she retorts, as 
though pulling a rabbit 

out of a hat. 'Closure!'

 'Jemima, closure and revenge are not actually the same thing,' 
says Lissy. 

'In my book they are.' She gives me an impressive look. 'Emma, 
you're my friend, and 

I'm not going to let you just sit back and allow yourself to be 
mistreated by some bastard 
man. He deserves to pay. He deserves to be punished!'

 I stare at Jemima, feeling a few tiny qualms.

 'Jemima, you're not actually going to do anything about this.' 

'Of course I am,' she says. 'I'm not going to stand by and see you 
suffer. It's called the 
sisterhood, Emma!' 

Oh my God. I have visions of Jemima rooting through Jack's 
rubbish bins in her pink 
Gucci suit. Or scraping his car with a nail file.

 'Jemima … don't do anything,' I say in alarm. 'Please. I don't want 
you to.' 


 'You think you don't. But you'll thank me later—'

 'No I won't! Jemima, you have to promise me you're not going to 
do anything stupid.'

 She tightens her jaw mutinously.

 'Promise!'

 'OK,' says Jemima at last, rolling her eyes. 'I promise.'

 'She's crossing her fingers behind her back,' observes Lissy. 

' What?' I stare at Jemima in disbelief. 'Promise properly! Swear on 
something you really 
love.' 

'Oh God,' says Jemima sulkily. 'All right, you win. I swear on my 
Miu Miu ponyskin 
bag, I won't do anything. But you're making a big mistake, you 
know.' 

She saunters out of the room, and I watch her, a bit uneasily. 

'That girl is a total psychopath,' says Lissy, sinking down onto a 
chair. 'Why did we ever 
let her move in here?' She takes a sip of tea. 'Actually, I 
remember why. It was because 
her dad gave us a whole year's rent in advance—' She catches my 
expression. 'Are you 


OK?' 
'You don't think she'll actually do anything to Jack, do you?' 

'Of course not,' says Lissy reassuringly. 'She's all talk. She'll 
probably bump into one of 
her ditzy friends and forget all about it.' 

'You're right.' I give myself a little shake. 'You're right.' I pick up 

my cup and look at it 
silently for a few moments. 'Lissy, do you really think Jack's secret 
is another woman?'

 Lissy opens her mouth. 
'Anyway, I don't care,' I add defiantly, before she can answer. 'I 
don't care what it is.' 
'Sure,' says Lissy, and gives me a sympathetic smile. 
As I arrive at the office, Artemis looks up from her desk with a 
bright-eyed glance.

 'Morning Emma!' She smirks at Catherine. 'Read any intellectual 
books lately?' 
Oh, ha ha-di-ha. So, so funny. Everyone else at work has got bored 

with teasing me. 
Only Artemis still thinks it's completely hilarious. 
'Actually, Artemis, I have,' I say brightly, taking off my jacket. 'I 


read this really good 
book recently, it was called "What to do if your colleague is an 
obnoxious cow who picks 

her nose when she thinks no-one's looking."' 


There's a guffaw around the office, and Artemis flushes a dark 
red.


 'I don't!' she snaps.


 'I never said you did,' I reply innocently, and switch on my 
computer with a flourish. 


'Ready to go to the meeting, Artemis?' says Paul, coming out of 
his office with his 
briefcase and a magazine in his hand. 'And by the way, Nick,' he 
adds ominously, 'Before 
I go, would you mind telling me what on earth possessed you to 
put a coupon ad for 
Panther Bars in –' he consults the front cover


 '– Bowling Monthly magazine? I'm assuming it was you, as this is 
your product?' 


My heart gives a little swoop, and I lift my head. Shit. Double shit. 
I didn't think Paul 


would ever find out about that. 
Nick shoots me a dirty look and I pull an agonized face back. 
'Well,' he begins truculently. 'Yes, Paul. Panther Bars are my 
product. But as it happens 


—' 
Oh God. I can't let him take the blame. 
'Paul,' I say in a trembling voice, half raising my hand. 'Actually, it 
was—' 
'Because I want to tell you,' Paul grins at Nick. 'It was bloody 
inspired! I've just had the 


feedback figures, and bearing in mind the pitiful circulation … 
they're extraordinary!' 
I stare at him in astonishment. The ad worked? 



'Really?' says Nick, obviously trying to sound not too amazed. 'I 
mean – excellent!' 
'What the fuck compelled you to advertise a teenage bar to a load 
of old codgers?' 
'Well!' Nick adjusts his cufflinks, not looking anywhere near me. 
'Obviously it was a bit 


of a gamble. But I simply felt that maybe it was time to … to fly a 
few kites … 
experiment with a new demographic …' 
Hang on a minute. What's he saying? 


'Well, your experiment paid off.' Paul gives Nick an approving look. 
'And very 
interestingly, it coincides with some Scandinavian market 
research we've just had in. If 
you'd like to see me later, to discuss it—'


 'Sure!' says Nick with a pleased smile. 'What sort of time?' 
No! How can he? He is such a bastard . 
'Wait!' To my own astonishment, I leap to my feet in outrage. 'Wait 
a minute! That was 


my idea!' 
'What?' Paul frowns. 
'The Bowling Monthly ad. It was my idea. Wasn't it, Nick?' I look 
directly at him. 
'Maybe we discussed it,' he says, not meeting my eye. 'I don't 
really remember. But you 


know, something you'll have to learn, Emma, is that marketing's 
all about team-work …' . 
'Don't patronize me! This wasn't team-work. It was totally my 
idea. I put it in for my 
grandpa!' 



Damn. I didn't quite mean to let that slip out. 

'First your parents. Now your grandpa,' says Paul, turning to look 
at me. 'Emma, remind 
me, is this Bring Your Entire Family To Work week?' 

'No! It's just …' I begin, a little hot under his gaze. 'You said you 
were going to axe 
Panther Bars, so I … I thought I'd give him and his friends some 
money off, and they 
could all stock up. I tried to tell you at that big meeting, my 
grandfather loves Panther 
Bars! And so do all his friends. If you ask me, you should be 
marketing Panther Bars at 

them , not teenagers.' 

There's silence. Paul looks astonished. 

'You know, in Scandinavia, they're coming to the same 
conclusion,' he says. 'That's what 

this new research shows.'

 'Oh,' I say. 'Well … there you go.' 

'So why does this older generation like Panther Bars so much, 
Emma? Do you know?' 

He sounds genuinely fascinated.

 'Yes, of course I know.' 

'It's the grey pound,' puts in Nick wisely. 'Demographic shifts in 
the pensionable 
population are accounting for—' 

'No it's not!' I say impatiently. 'It's because … because …' Oh God, 
Grandpa will 


absolutely kill me for saying this. 'It's because … they don't pull 
out their false teeth.' 


There's a staggered pause. Then Paul throws back his head and 
roars with laughter. 'False 
teeth,' he says, wiping his eyes. 'That is sheer bloody genius, 
Emma. False teeth!' 


He chuckles again and I stare back at him, feeling the blood 
beating in my head. I've got 


the strangest feeling. Like something's building up inside me, as 
though I'm about to—


 'So can I have a promotion?'


 'What?' Paul looks up.


 Did I really just say that? Out loud? 


'Can I have a promotion?' My voice is trembling slightly, but I hold 
firm. 'You said if I 
created my own opportunities I could have a promotion. That's 
what you said. Isn't this 
creating my own opportunities?' 


Paul looks at me for a few moments, blinking, saying nothing. 


'You know, Emma Corrigan,' he says at last. 'You are one of the 
most … one of the most 
surprising people I've ever known.'


 'Is that a yes?' I persist. 


There's silence in the entire office. Everyone's waiting to see what 
he'll say. 


'Oh, for God's sake,' he says, rolling his eyes. 'All right! You can 
have a promotion. Is 



that it?' 


'No,' I hear myself saying, my heart beating even more furiously. 
'There's more. Paul, I 
broke your World Cup mug.'


 'What?' He looks gobsmacked. 


'I'm really sorry. I'll buy you another one.' I look around the silent, 
gawping office. 'And 
it was me who jammed the copier that time. In fact … all the 
times. And that bottom …' 
Amid agog faces, I walk to the pin-board and rip down the 
photocopied, G-stringed 
bottom. 'That's mine, and I don't want it up there any more.' I 
swivel round. 'And Artemis, 
about your spider plant …'


 'What?' she says suspiciously. 


I stare at her, in her Burberry raincoat and her designer 
spectacles, and her smug, I'mbetterthan-
you face. 


OK, let's not get carried away. 'I … I can't think what's wrong with 
it.' I smile at her. 
'Have a good meeting.' 


For the rest of the day, I am totally exhilarated. Kind of shocked 
and exhilarated, all at 
the same time. I can't believe I'm getting a promotion. I'm 
actually going to be a 
Marketing Executive! 


But it's not just that. I don't quite know what's happened to me. I 
feel like a whole new 
person. So what if I broke Paul's mug? Who cares? So what if 
everyone knows how much 



I weigh? Who cares? Goodbye old, crap Emma, who hides her 
Oxfam bags under her 
desk. Hello new, confident Emma, who proudly hangs them on her 
chair. 

I rang Mum and Dad to tell them I was getting promoted, and they 
were so impressed! 
They said at once they'd come up to London and take me out to 
celebrate. And then I had 
a really nice long chat with Mum about Jack. She said some 
relationships were supposed 
to last for ever and some were only supposed to last a few days, 
and that was just the way 
life was. Then she told me all about some chap in Paris who she'd 
had some amazing 
forty-eight hour fling with. She said she'd never experienced 
physical pleasure like it, and 

she knew it could never last, but that made it all the more 
poignant. 

Then she added I needn't mention any of this to Dad.

 Gosh. I'm actually quite shocked. I always thought Mum and Dad 
… at least, I never … 

Well. It just goes to show. 

But she is right. Some relationships are meant to be short-lived. 
Jack and I were 
obviously never going to get anywhere. And actually, I'm very 
sorted out about it. In fact, 
I'm pretty much over him. My heart only went into spasm once 
today, when I thought I 
saw him in the corridor, and I recovered really quickly. 

My whole new life begins today. In fact, I expect I'll meet someone 
new tonight at 


Lissy's dancing show. Some really tall, dashing lawyer. Yes. And 
he'll come and pick me 
up from work in his amazingly fab sports car. And I'll trip happily 
down the steps, tossing 
my hair back, not even looking at Jack, who will be standing at his 
office window, 
glowering …

 No. No. Jack won't be anywhere. I am over Jack. I have to 
remember this.

 Maybe I'll write it on my hand. 

TWENTY-FOUR 

Lissy's dancing show is being held in a theatre in Bloomsbury set 
in a small gravelled 
courtyard, and when I arrive I find the entire place crammed with 
lawyers in expensive 
suits using their mobile phones.

 '… client unwilling to accept the terms of agreement …'

 '… attention to clause four, comma, notwithstanding …' 

No-one is making the slightest attempt to go into the auditorium 
yet, so I head backstage, 
to give Lissy the bouquet I've bought for her. (I was originally 
planning to throw it onto 
the stage at the end, but it's roses, and I'm a bit worried it might 
ladder her tights.) 

As I walk down the shabby corridors, music is being piped through 
the sound system and 
people keep brushing past me in glittery costumes. A man with 
blue feathers in his hair is 
stretching his leg against the wall and talking to someone in a 
dressing room at the same 


time. 'So then I pointed out to that idiot of a prosecuting counsel 
that the precedent set in 
1983 by Miller v. Davy means …' He suddenly stops. 'Shit. I've 
forgotten my first steps.' 
His face drains of colour. 'I can't remember a fucking thing. I'm 
not joking! I jete on – 
then what?' He looks at me as though expecting me to supply him 
with an answer. 

'Er … a pirouette?' I hazard, and awkwardly hurry on, nearly 
tripping over a girl doing 

the splits. Then I catch sight of Lissy sitting on a stool in one of 
the dressing rooms. Her 
face is heavily made up and her eyes are all huge and glittery, 
and she's got blue feathers 
in her hair too. 

'Oh my God, Lissy!' I say, halting in the doorway. 'You look 
amazing! I completely love 
your—'

 'I can't do it.'

 'What?' 

'I can't do it!' she repeats desperately, and pulls her cotton robe 
around her. 'I can't 
remember anything. My mind is blank!' 

'Everyone thinks that,' I say reassuringly. 'There was a guy outside 
saying exactly the 
same thing—' 

'No. I really can't remember anything.' Lissy stares at me with 
wild eyes. 'My legs feel 
like cotton wool, I can't breathe …' She picks up a blusher brush, 
looks at it bleakly, then 
puts it down. 'Why did I ever agree to do this? Why?' 


 'Er … because it would be fun?' 


'Fun?' Her voice rises in disbelief. 'You think this is fun ? Oh God.' 
Suddenly her face 
changes expression, and she breaks off and rushes through an 
adjoining door. The next 
moment I can hear her retching. 


OK, there's something wrong here. I thought dancing was suppose 
to be good for your 
health.


 She appears at the door again, pale and trembling, and I peer at 
her anxiously.


 'Liss, are you all right?' 


'I can't do it,' she says. 'I can't.' She seems to come to a sudden 
decision. 'OK, I'm going 
home.' She starts reaching for her clothes. 'Tell them I was 
suddenly taken ill, it was an 
emergency …' 


'You can't go home!' I say in horror, and try to grab the clothes 
out of her hands. 'Lissy, 
you'll be fine! I mean, think about it. How many times have you 
had to stand up in a big 
court and make some really long speech in front of loads of 
people, and if you get it 
wrong an innocent man might go to jail?'


 Lissy stares at me as though I'm crazy.


 'Yes, but that's easy !' 


'Well …' I cast around desperately. 'Well, if you pull out now, you'll 
always regret it. 
You'll always look back and wish you'd gone through with it.' 



There's silence. I can practically see Lissy's brain working 
underneath all the feathers 
and stuff. 

'You're right,' she says at last, and relinquishes her hold of the 
clothes. 'OK. I'll do it. But 
I don't want you to watch. Just … meet me afterwards. No, don't 
even do that. Just stay 
away. Stay right away.'

 'OK,' I say hesitantly. 'I'll go if you really want me to—'

 'No!' She swivels round. 'You can't go! I've changed my mind. I 
need you there!' 

'OK,' I say, even more hesitantly, just as a Tannoy in the wall 
blares out 'This is your 
fifteen minute call!'

 'I'll go then,' I say. 'Let you warm up.' 

'Emma.' Lissy grabs hold of my arm and fixes me with an intense 
gaze. She's holding me 
so tight, she's hurting my flesh. 'Emma, if I ever say I want to do 
anything like this again, 
you have to stop me. Whatever I say. Promise you'll stop me.'

 'I promise,' I say hastily. 'I promise.' 

Bloody hell. I have never seen Lissy like that before in my life. As I 
walk back out into 
the courtyard, which is now swarming with even more welldressed 
people, I'm thudding 
with nerves myself. She didn't look capable of standing up, let 
alone dancing.

 Please don't let her mess up. Please. 


A horrible image comes to me of Lissy standing like a startled 
rabbit, unable to 
remember her steps. And the audience just staring at her. The 
thought of it makes my 
stomach curdle. 


OK. I am not going to let that happen. If anything goes wrong I'll 
cause a distraction. I'll 
pretend to have a heart attack. Yes. I'll collapse on the floor, and 
everyone will look at me 
for a few seconds, but the performance won't stop or anything 
because we're British, and 
by the time everyone turns back to the stage again, Lissy will 
have remembered her steps. 


And if they rush me to hospital or anything, I'll just say, 'I had 
these terrible chest pains!' 
No-one will be able to prove that I didn't. 


And even if they can prove it, with some special machine, I'll just 
say— 


'Emma.' 
'What?' I say absently. And then my heart stops. 
Jack is standing ten feet away. He's dressed in his usual uniform of 
jeans and jersey, and 


he stands out a mile amongst all the corporate suited lawyers. As 
his dark eyes meet mine 
I feel all the old hurt rushing back into my chest.


 Don't react, I tell myself quickly. Closure. New life.


 'What are you doing here?' I ask, with a little I'm-not-actuallyinterested 
shrug. 


'I found the flyer for this on your desk.' He lifts a piece of paper, 
not taking his eyes off 



mine. 'Emma, I really wanted to talk.' 


I feel a sudden smarting inside. He thinks he can just pitch up and 
I'll drop everything to 
talk to him? Well, maybe I'm busy. Maybe I've moved on. Did he 
think of that?


 'Actually … I'm here with someone,' I say in polite, slightly pitying 
tones.


 'Really?'


 'Yes. I am. So …' I give a little shrug and wait for Jack to walk 
away. But he doesn't.


 'Who?' he says.


 OK, he wasn't supposed to ask who. For a moment I'm not 
entirely sure what to do. 


'Er … him,' I say at last, and point at a tall guy in shirt-sleeves, 
who's standing in the 
corner of the courtyard, facing away from us. 'In fact, I'd better 
join him.' 


My head high, I swivel on my heel and start walking towards the 
shirt-sleeved guy. What 
I'll do is just ask him the time, and somehow engage him in 
conversation until Jack's 
gone. (And maybe laugh gaily once or twice to show what a good 
time we're having.) 


I'm within a few feet of him, when the shirt-sleeved guy turns 
round, talking on a 
mobile. 


'Hi!' I begin brightly, but he doesn't even hear me. He gives me 
ablank glance, then 
walks off, still talking, into the crowd. 



 I'm left all alone in the corner.

 Fuck. 

After what seems like several eternities, I turn round, as 
nonchalantly as I can. 


Jack is still standing there, watching. 
I stare at him furiously, my whole body pulsing with 
embarrassment. If he laughs at me 


—


 But he's not laughing. 


'Emma …' He walks forward until he's only a couple of feet away, 
his face frank. 'What 


you said. It stayed with me. I should have shared more with you. I 
shouldn't have shut 
you out.' 


I feel a dart of surprise, followed by wounded pride. So he wants 
to share with me now, 
does he? Well maybe it's too late. Maybe I'm not interested any 
more. 


'You don't need to share anything with me. Your affairs are your 
affairs, Jack.' I give him 
a distancing smile. 'They're nothing to do with me. And I probably 
wouldn't understand 
them, anyway, bearing in mind they're so complicated and I'm 
such a total thickie …' 



 I swivel determinedly, and start to walk away, over the gravel. 
'I owe you an explanation, at least,' Jack's dry voice follows me. 
'You owe me nothing!' I lift my chin proudly. 'It's over, Jack. And 
we might as well both 

just … Aargh! Let go!'

 Jack has grabbed my arm, and now he pulls me round to face 
him. 

'I came here tonight for a reason, Emma,' he says gravely. 'I came 
to tell you what I was 

doing in Scotland.'

 I feel the most almighty bound of shock, which I hide as best I 
can. 

'I'm not interested in what you were doing in Scotland!' I manage. 
I wrench my arm 

away and start striding away as best I can through the thicket of 
mobile-phone-gabbing 
lawyers.

 'Emma, I want to tell you.' He's coming after me. 'I really want to 
tell you.' 

'Well, maybe I don't want to know!' I reply defiantly, swivelling 
round on the gravel with 


a scatter of pebbles. 

We're facing each other like a pair of duellers. My ribcage is rising 
and falling quickly.

 Of course I want to know. 
He knows I want to know. 
'Go on then,' I say at last, and give a grudging shrug. 'You can tell 
me if you like.' 
In silence, Jack leads me over to a quiet spot, away from all the 
crowds. As we walk, my 

bravado ebbs away. In fact, I'm a bit apprehensive. Scared, even.

 Do I really want to know his secret, after all? 

What if it's fraud, like Lissy said? What if he's doing something 
dodgy and he wants me 

to join in? 

What if he's had some really embarrassing operation and I start 
laughing by mistake? 

What if it is another woman and he's come to tell me he's getting 
married or something? 

I feel a tiny pang of pain, which I quell. Well, if it is … I'll just act 
cool, like I knew all 


along. In fact I'll pretend I've got another lover, too. Yes. I'll give 
him a wry smile, and 
say, 'You know, Jack, I never assumed we were exclusive—' 


'OK.' Jack turns to face me, and I instantaneously decide that if 
he's committed a murder 
I will turn him in, promise or no promise.


 'Here it is.' He takes a deep breath. 'I was in Scotland to visit 
someone.'


 My heart plummets.


 'A woman,' I say before I can stop myself. 


'No, not a woman!' His expression changes, and he stares at me. 
'Is that what you 
thought? That I was two-timing you?'


 'I … didn't know what to think.' 


'Emma, I do not have another woman. I was visiting …' He 
hesitates. 'You could call it 
… family.'


 My brain gives a huge swivel.


 Family?


 Oh my God, Jemima was right, I've got involved with a mobster. 



OK. Don't panic. I can escape. I can go in the witness protection 
scheme. My new name 
can be Megan. 


No, Chloe. Chloe de Souza. 
'To be more precise … a child.' 
A child? My brain lurches again. He has a child? 
'Her name is Alice.' He gives a tiny smile. 'She's four years old.' 
He has a wife and a whole family I don't know about, and that's 
his secret. I knew it, I 


knew it.


 'You …' I lick my dry lips. 'You have a child?' 


'No, I don't have a child.' Jack stares at the ground for a few 
seconds, then looks up. 'Pete 


had a child. He had a daughter. Alice is Pete Laidler's child.'


 'But … but …' I stare at him in confusion. 'But … I never knew 
Pete Laidler had a child.'


 'Nobody knows.' He gives me a long look. 'That's the whole idea.' 


This is so completely and utterly not what I was expecting. 


A child. Pete Laidler's secret child. 



'But … but how can nobody know about her?' I say stupidly. We've 
moved even further 
away from the crowds and are sitting on a bench under a tree. 'I 
mean surely they'd see 
her.' 

'Pete was a great guy.' Jack sighs. 'But commitment was never his 
strong suit. By the 
time Marie – that's Alice's mom – found out she was pregnant, 
they weren't even together 
any more. Marie's one of those proud, defensive types. She was 
determined to do 
everything on her own. Pete supported her financially – but he 
wasn't interested in the 
child. He didn't even tell anybody he'd become a father.'

 'Even you?' I stare at him. 'You didn't know he had a child?' 

'Not until after he died.' His face closes up slightly. 'I loved Pete. 
But that, I find very 
hard to forgive. So a few months after he died, Marie turns up 
with this baby.' Jack 
exhales sharply. 'Well. You can imagine how we all felt. Shocked is 
an understatement. 
But Marie was positive she didn't want anyone to know. She 
wanted to bring Alice up just 
like a normal kid, not as Pete Laidler's love child. Not as the 
heiress to some huge 
fortune.' 

My mind is boggling. A four-year-old getting Pete Laidler's share of 
the Panther 
Corporation. Bloody hell. 

'So she gets everything?' I say hesitantly. 

'Not everything, no. But a lot. Pete's family have been more than 
generous. And that's 


why Marie's keeping her away from the public eye.' He spreads 
his hands. 'I know we 
can't shield her for ever. It'll come out sooner or later. But when 
they find out about her, 
the press will go nuts. She'll shoot to the top of the rich lists … the 
other kids will give 
her a hard time … she won't be normal any more. Some kids 
could cope. But Alice … 
she's not one of them. She has asthma, she's kind of frail.' 


As he's speaking, my mind is filled with memories of the papers 
after Pete Laidler died. 
Every single one had a picture of him on the front page. 


'I'm overprotective of this child.' Jack gives a rueful smile. 'I know 
it. Even Marie tells 
me I am. But … she's precious to me.' He stares ahead for a 
moment. 'She's all we've got 
left of Pete.'


 I gaze at him, suddenly feeling moved. 


'So, is that what the phone calls were about?' I say tentatively. 'Is 
that why you had to 
leave the other night?' 


Jack sighs. 'They were both in a road accident a few days ago. It 
wasn't serious. But … 
we're extra-sensitive, after Pete. We just wanted to make sure 
they got the right 
treatment.'


 'Right,' I give a little wince. 'I can understand that.' 


There's silence for a while. My brain is trying to slot all the pieces 
together. Trying to 
work it all out. 



'But I don't understand,' I say. 'Why did you make me keep it a 
secret that you'd been in 
Scotland? Nobody would know, surely.'

 Jack rolls his eyes ruefully. 

'That was my own dumb stupid fault. I'd told some people I was 
going across to Paris 
that day, just as an extra precaution. I took an anonymous flight. I 
thought no-one would 
ever know. Then I walk into the office … and there you are.'

 'Your heart sank.'

 'Not exactly.' He meets my eyes. 'It didn't quite know which way 
to go.'

 I feel a sudden colour coming to my cheeks and awkwardly clear 
my throat.

 'So … er …' I say, looking away. 'So that's why …' 

'All I wanted was to avoid you piping up, "Hey, he wasn't in Paris, 
he was in Scotland!" 
and start some huge intrigue going.' Jack shakes his head. 'You'd 
be amazed at the 
ludicrous theories people will put together when they don't have 
anything better to do. 
You know, I've heard it all. I'm planning to sell the company … I'm 
gay … I'm in the 
Mafia …'

 'Er … really?' I say, and smooth down a strand of hair. 'Gosh. How 
stupid of people!' 

A couple of girls wander nearby, and we both fall silent for a 
while. 


'Emma, I'm sorry I couldn't tell you this before,' Jack says in a low 
voice. 'I know you 
were hurt. I know it felt like I was shutting you out. But … it's just 
not something you 
share lightly.'


 'No!' I say immediately. 'Of course you couldn't have done. I was 
stupid.' 


I scuff my toe awkwardly on the gravel, feeling a bit shamefaced. 
I should have known it 
would be something important. When he said it was complicated 
and sensitive, he was 
just telling the truth. 


'Only a handful of people know about this.' Jack meets my eyes 
gravely. 'A handful of 
special, trusted people.'


 There's something in his gaze which makes my throat feel a bit 
tight. I stare back at him, 
feeling blood rising in my cheeks. 


'Are you going in?' comes a bright voice. We jump, and look up to 
see a woman in black 
jeans approaching. 'The performance is about to start!' she says 
with a beam.


 I feel like she's slapped me awake from a dream.


 'I … I have to go and watch Lissy dancing,' I say dazedly. 


'Right. Well, I'll leave you then. That was really all I had to say.' 
Slowly Jack gets to his 
feet, then turns back. 'There's one more thing.' He looks at me for 
a few silent moments. 
'Emma, I realize these last few days can't have been easy for you. 
You have been the 



model of discretion throughout, whereas I … have not. And I just 
wanted to apologize. 
Again.'


 'That's … that's OK,' I manage. 


Jack turns again, and I watch him walking slowly away over the 
gravel, feeling 
completely torn.


 He came all the way here to tell me his secret. His big, precious 
secret. 


He didn't have to do that. 
Oh God. Oh God … 
'Wait!' I hear myself calling out, and Jack immediately turns. 
'Would you … would you 


like to come too?' And I feel a ripple of pleasure as his face 
creases into a smile. 
As we crunch over the gravel together, I pluck up the courage to 
speak. 
'Jack, I've got something to say too. About … about what you were 
just saying. I know I 


said you ruined my life the other day.' 
'I remember,' says Jack wryly. 
'Well, I may possibly have been wrong about that.' I clear my 
throat awkwardly. 'In fact 


… I was wrong.' I look at him frankly. 'Jack, you didn't ruin my life.' 
'I didn't?' says Jack. 'Do I get another shot?' 
In spite of myself, a giggle rises inside me. 
'No!' 
'No? Is that your final answer?' 



As he looks at me there's a bigger question in his eyes, and I feel 
a little shaft, half hope, 


half apprehension. For a long while neither of us says anything. 
I'm breathing rather fast. 
Suddenly Jack's gaze falls with interest on my hand. 'I am over 
Jack,' he reads aloud. 
Fuck. 
My entire face flames with colour. 
I am never writing anything on my hand again. Ever. 
'That's just …' I clear my throat again. 'That was just a doodle … it 
didn't mean …' 
A shrill ring from my mobile interrupts me. Thank God. Whoever 
this is, I love them. I 


hastily pull it out and press green. 
'Emma, you're going to love me for ever!' come Jemima's piercing 
tones. 
'What?' I stare at the phone. 


'I've sorted everything out for you!' she says triumphantly. 'I 
know, I'm a total star, you 
don't know what you'd do without me—'


 ' What?' I feel a twinge of alarm. 'Jemima, what are you talking 
about?' 


'Getting your revenge on Jack Harper, silly! Since you were just 
sitting there like a total 
wimp, I've taken matters into my own hands.'


 For moment I can't quite move. 


'Er, Jack … excuse me a minute.' I shoot him a bright smile. 'I just 
need to … take this 
call.' 



With trembling legs I hurry to the corner of the courtyard, well 
away from earshot. 


'Jemima, you promised you wouldn't do anything!' I hiss. 'You 
swore on your Miu Miu 
ponyskin bag, remember?' 


'I haven't got a Miu Miu ponyskin bag!' she crows triumphantly. 
'I've got a Fendi 
ponyskin bag!'


 She's mad. She's completely mad.


 'Jemima, what have you done?' I manage. 'Tell me what you've 
done.'


 My heart is thudding in apprehension. Please don't say she's 
scraped his car. Please. 


'An eye for an eye, Emma! That man totally betrayed you, and 
we're going to do the 
same to him. Now, I'm sitting here with a very nice chap called 
Mick. He's a journalist, he 
writes for the Daily World …'


 My blood runs cold. 
'A tabloid journalist?' I manage at last. 'Jemima, are you insane ?' 
'Don't be so narrow-minded and suburban,' retorts Jemima 
reprovingly. 'Emma, tabloid 


journalists are our friends . They're just like private detectives … 
but for free! Mick's 
done loads of work for Mummy before. He's marvellous at 
tracking things down. And 
he's very interested in finding out Jack Harper's little secret. I've 
told him all we know, 
but he'd like to have a word with you.' 



 I feel quite faint. This cannot be happening. 


'Jemima, listen to me,' I say in quick, low tones, as though trying 
to persuade a lunatic 
down off the roof. 'I don't want to find out Jack's secret, OK? I just 
want to forget it. You 
have to stop this guy.' 


'I won't!' she says like a petulant six-year-old. 'Emma, don't be so 
pathetic! You can't just 
let men walk all over you and do nothing in return. You have to 
show them. Mummy 
always says—' There's the sudden screeching of tyres. 'Oops! Tiny 
prang. I'll call you 
back.' 


The phone goes dead. 
I am numb with horror. 
Frantically I jab her number into my phone, but it clicks straight 
on to messages. 
'Jemima,' I say as soon as it beeps. 'Jemima, you have to stop 
this! You have to—' I stop 


abruptly as Jack appears in front of me, with a warm smile.


 'It's about to start,' he says, and gives me a curious look. 
'Everything all right?'


 'Fine,' I say in a strangled voice, and put my phone away. 
'Everything's … fine.' 


TWENTY-FIVE 

As I walk into the auditorium I'm almost lightheaded with panic. 

What have I done? What have I done? 


I have given away Jack's most precious secret in the world to a 
morally warped, revenge


wreaking, Prada-wearing nutcase. 


OK. Just calm down, I tell myself for the zillionth time. She doesn't 
actually know 
anything. This journalist probably won't find out anything. I mean, 
what facts does he 
actually have? 


But what if he does find out? What if he somehow stumbles on the 
truth? And Jack 
discovers it was me who pointed them in the right direction? 


I feel ill at the thought. My stomach is curdling. Why did I ever 
mention Scotland to 
Jemima? Why ? 


New resolution: I am never giving away a secret again. Never, 
ever, ever. Even if it 
doesn't seem important. Even if I am feeling angry. 


In fact … I am never talking again, full stop. All talking ever seems 
to do is get me into 
trouble. If I hadn't opened my mouth on that stupid plane in the 
first place, I wouldn't be 
in this mess now. 


I will become a mute. A silent enigma. When people ask me 
questions I will simply nod, 
or scribble cryptic notes on pieces of paper. People will take them 
away and puzzle over 
them, searching them for hidden meanings— 


'Is this Lissy?' says Jack, pointing to a name in the programme, 
and I jump in fright. I 
follow his gaze, then give a silent nod, my mouth clamped shut. 



 'Do you know anyone else in the show?' he asks. 
I give a mute 'who knows?' shrug. 
'So … how long has Lissy been practising?' 
I hesitate, then hold up three fingers. 
'Three?' Jack peers at me uncertainly. 'Three what?' 


I make a little gesture with my hands which is supposed to 
indicate 'months'. Then I 
make it again. Jack looks totally baffled.

 'Emma, is something wrong?' 
I feel in my pocket for a pen – but I haven't got one. 
OK, forget not talking. 
'About three months,' I say out loud. 


'Right.' Jack nods, and turns back to the programme. His face is 
calm and unsuspecting, 
and I can feel guilty nerves rising through me again.


 Maybe I should just tell him. 
No. I can't. I can't. How would I put it? 'By the way, Jack. You know 

that really 
important secret you asked me to keep? Well, guess what …' 
Containment is what I need. Like in those military films where 

they bump off the person 
who knows too much. But how do I contain Jemima? I've launched 
some crazed human 
Exocet missile, fizzing around London, bent on causing as much 
devastation as she can, 


and now I want to call her back, but the button doesn't work any 
more.


 OK. Just think rationally. There's no need to panic. Nothing's 
going to happen tonight. I'll 
just keep trying her mobile and as soon as I get through I'll 
explain in words of one 
syllable that she has to call this guy off and if she doesn't I will 
break her legs. 


A low, insistent drumbeat starts playing over the loudspeakers, 
and I give a start of fright. 
I'm so distracted, I'd actually forgotten what we were here for. The 
auditorium is 


becoming completely dark, and around us the audience falls silent 
with anticipation. The 
beating increases in volume, but nothing happens on stage; it's 
still pitch black. 


The drumming becomes even louder, and I'm starting to feel 
tense. This is all a bit 
spooky. When are they going to start dancing? When are they 
going to open the curtains? 
When are they going to— 


Pow! Suddenly there's a gasp as a dazzling light fills the 
auditorium, nearly blinding me. 
Thumping music fills the air, and a single figure appears on stage 
in a black, glittering 
costume, twirling and leaping. Gosh, whoever it is, they're 
amazing. I'm blinking dazedly 
against the bright light, trying to see. I can hardly tell if it's a man 
or a woman or a—


 Oh my God. It's Lissy. 


I am pinioned to my seat by shock. Everything else has been 
swept away from my mind. 



I cannot keep my eyes off Lissy. 

I had no idea she could do this. No idea! I mean, we did a bit of 
ballet together. And a bit 
of tap. But we never … I never … How can I have known someone 
for over twenty years 
and have no idea they could dance? 

She just did this amazing slow, sinewy dance with a guy in a mask 
who I guess is Jean-
Paul, and now she's leaping and spinning around with this ribbon 
thing, and the whole 
audience is staring at her, agog, and she looks so completely 
radiant. I haven't seen her 
look so happy for months. I'm so proud of her. 

To my horror, tears start to prick my eyes. And now my nose is 
starting to run. I don't 
even have a tissue. This is so embarrassing. I'm going to have to 
sniff, like a mother at a 
Nativity play. Next I'll be standing up and running to the front with 
my camcorder, going, 
'Hello darling, wave to Daddy!' 

OK. I need to get a hold of myself, otherwise it'll be like the time I 
took my little goddaughter 
Amy to see the Disney cartoon Tarzan , and when the lights went 
up, she was 
fast asleep and I was in floods, being gawped at by a load of 
stony-eyed four-year-olds. 
(Just in my defence, it was pretty romantic. And Tarzan was pretty 
sexy.) 

I feel something nudging my hand. I look up, and Jack's offering 
me a hanky. As I take it 
from him, his fingers curl briefly round mine. 

When the performance comes to an end, I'm on a total high. Lissy 
takes a star bow, and 


both Jack and I applaud madly, grinning at each other.

 'Don't tell anyone I cried,' I say, above the sound of applause.

 'I won't,' says Jack, and gives me a rueful smile. 'I promise.' 

The curtain comes down for the last time, and people start getting 
out of their seats, 
reaching for jackets and bags. And now we're coming back down 
to normality again, I 
feel my exhilaration seeping away and anxiety returning. I have to 
try to contact Jemima 
again. 


At the exit, people are streaming across the courtyard to a lit-up 
room on the other side. 


'Lissy said I should meet her at the party,' I say to Jack. 'So er … 
why don't you go on? I 
just need to make a quick call.'


 'Are you OK?' says Jack, giving me a curious look. 'You seem 
jumpy.' 


'I'm fine!' I say. 'Just excited!' I give him as convincing a beam as I 
can manage, then 
wait until he's safely out of earshot. Immediately I dial Jemima's 
number. Straight on to 
messages.


 I dial it again. Messages again. 


I want to scream with frustration. Where is she? What's she 
doing? How can I contain 
her if I don't know where she is?


 I stand perfectly still, trying to ignore my thrusting panic, trying 
to work out what to do. 



OK. I'll just have to go to the party and act normally, keep trying 
her on the phone and if 
all else fails, wait until I see her later. There's nothing else I can 
do. It'll be fine. It'll be 
fine. 

The party is huge and bright and noisy. All the dancers are there, 
still in costume, and all 
the audience, and a fair number of people who seem to have 
come along just for the ride. 
Waiters are carrying drinks around and the noise of chatter is 
tremendous. As I walk in, I 
can't see anyone I know. I take a glass of wine and start edging 
into the crowd, 
overhearing conversations all around.

 '… wonderful costumes …'

 '… find time for rehearsals?'

 '… judge was totally intransigent …' 

Suddenly I spot Lissy, looking flushed and shiny and surrounded 
by a load of goodlooking 
lawyer-type guys, one of whom is blatantly staring at her 
legs. 

'Lissy!' I cry. She turns around and I give her a huge hug. 'I had no 
idea you could dance 
like that! You were amazing!'

 'Oh no. I wasn't,' she says at once, and pulls a typical Lissy-face. 
'I completely messed up 

—'

 'Stop!' I interrupt. 'Lissy, it was utterly fantastic. You were 
fantastic.' 


 'But I was completely crap in the—'


 ' Don'tsay you were crap!' I practically yell. 'You were fantastic. 
Say it. Say it, Lissy.' 


'Well … OK.' Her face reluctantly creases into a smile. 'OK. I was 
… fantastic!' She 


gives an elated laugh. 'Emma, I've never felt so good in my life! 
And guess what, we're 
already planning to go on tour next year.' 


'But …' I stare at her. 'You said you never wanted to do this again, 
ever, and if you 
mentioned it again, I had to stop you.' 


'Oh, that was just stage fright,' she says with an airy wave of her 
hand. Then she lowers 
her voice. 'I saw Jack, by the way.' She gives me an avid look. 
'What's going on?'


 My heart gives a huge thump. Should I tell her about Jemima?


 No. She'll only get all hassled. And anyway, there's nothing either 
of us can do right now.


 'Jack came here to talk to me.' I hesitate. 'To … tell me his secret.'


 'You're joking!' breathes Lissy, hand to her mouth. 'So – what is 
it?'


 'I can't tell you.' 


'You can't tell me?' Lissy stares at me in incredulity. 'After all that, 
you're not even going 
to tell me?'


 'Lissy, I really can't.' I pull an agonized face. 'It's … complicated.' 



 God, I sound just like Jack. 


'Well, all right,' says Lissy a bit grumpily. 'I suppose I can live 
without knowing. So … 
are you two together again?'


 'I dunno,' I say, flushing. 'Maybe.' 


'Lissy! That was fabulous!' A couple of girls in suits appear at her 
side. I give her a smile 
and move away slightly as she greets them.


 Jack is nowhere to be seen. Should I try Jemima again? 


Surreptitiously I start getting out my phone, then hastily put it 
away again as I hear a 


voice behind me calling 'Emma!' 
I look round, and give a huge start of surprise. Connor's standing 
there in a suit, holding 
a glass of wine, his hair all shiny and blond under the spotlights. 
He has a new tie on, I 


notice instantly. Big yellow polka dots on blue. I don't like it. 
'Connor! What are you doing here?' I say in astonishment. 
'Lissy sent me a flyer,' he replies, a little defensively. 'I've always 
been fond of Lissy. I 


thought I'd come along. And I'm glad I've run into you,' he adds 
awkwardly. 'I'd like to 
talk to you, if I may.' 


He draws me towards the door, away from the main crowd, and I 
follow, a tad nervously. 
I haven't had a proper chat with Connor since Jack was on 
television. Which could 
possibly be because every time I've glimpsed him, I've quickly 
hurried the other way. 



 'Yes?' I say, turning to face him. 'What did you want to talk 
about?' 
'Emma.' Connor clears his throat as though he's about to start a 
formal speech. 'I get the 


feeling that you weren't always … totally honest with me in our 
relationship.' 
This could be the understatement of the year. 
'You're right,' I admit, shamefacedly. 'Oh God, Connor, I'm really, 
really sorry about 


everything that happened—' He lifts a hand with a look of dignity. 
'It doesn't matter. That's water under the bridge. But I'd be 
grateful if you were totally 


honest with me now.' 
'Absolutely,' I say, nodding earnestly. 'Of course.' 
'I've recently … started a new relationship,' he says, a little stiffly. 
'Wow!' I say in surprise. 'Good for you! Connor, I'm really pleased. 
What's her name?' 
'Her name's Francesca.' 
'And where did you—' 
'I wanted to ask you about sex,' Connor says, cutting me off in a 
rush of embarrassment. 
'Oh! Right.' I feel a twinge of dismay, which I conceal by taking a 
sip of wine. 'Of 


course!' 
'Were you honest with me in that … area?' 


'Er … what do you mean?' I say lightly, playing for time. 
'Were you honest with me in bed?' His face is growing pillar-box 
red. 'Or were you 



faking it?'

 Oh no. Is that what he thinks? 
'Connor, I never ever faked an orgasm with you,' I say, lowering 
my voice. 'Hand on 
heart. I never did.'

 'Well … OK.' He rubs his nose awkwardly. 'But did you fake 
anything else?'

 I look at him uncertainly. 'I'm not sure I know what you—'

 'Were there any –' he clears his throat

 '– any particular techniques I used which you only pretended to 
enjoy?'.

 Oh God. Please don't ask me that question.

 'You know, I really … can't remember!' I hedge. 'Actually, I ought 

to be going …' 
'Emma, tell me!' he says, with sudden passion. 'I'm starting a new 
relationship. It's only 


fair that I should be able to … to learn from past mistakes.' 


I gaze back at his shiny face and suddenly feel a huge pang of 
guilt. He's right. I should 
be honest. I should finally be honest with him. 


'OK,' I say at last, and move closer to him. 'You remember that 
one thing you used to do 
with your tongue?' I lower my voice still further. 'That … slidey 
thing? Well, sometimes 
that kind of made me want to … laugh. So if I had one tip with 
your new girlfriend, it 


would be don't do …'


 I tail off at his expression.


 Fuck. He's already done.it. 


'Francesca said …' Connor says in a voice as stiff as a board. 
'Francesca told me that 


really turned her on.' 
'Well, I'm sure it did!' I backtrack madly. 'Women are all different. 
Our bodies are all 


different … everybody likes … different things.'


 Connor is staring me in consternation.


 'She said she loved jazz, too.' 


'Well, I expect she does! Loads of people do like jazz.' 
'She said she loved the way I could quote Woody Allen line for 
line.' He rubs his flushed 


face. 'Was she lying ?' 



 'No, I'm sure she wasn't …' I tail off helplessly. 
'Emma …' He stares at me bewilderedly. 'Do all women have 


secrets?' 
Oh no. Have I ruined Connor's trust in all of womankind for ever? 
'No!' I exclaim. 'Of course they don't! Honestly, Connor, I'm sure 


it's only me.' 


My words wither on my lips as I glimpse a flash of familiar-looking 
blond hair at the 
entrance to the hall. My heart stops. 
That can't be— 
That's not—


 'Connor, I have to go,' I say, and start hurrying towards the 


entrance. 
'She told me she's size ten!' Connor calls helplessly after me. 
'What does that mean? 


What size should I really buy?' 



 'Twelve!' I shoot back over my shoulder.


 It is. It's Jemima. Standing in the foyer. What's she doing here? 
The door opens again and I experience such a shock, I feel faint. 
She's got a guy with 
her. In jeans, with cropped hair and squirrelly eyes. He's got a 


camera slung over his 
shoulder and is looking around interestedly.


 No.


 She can't have done.


 'Emma,' comes a voice in my ear.


 'Jack!' I wheel round, to see him smiling down at me, his dark 
eyes full of affection.


 'You OK?' he says, and gently touches my nose.


 'Fine!' I say a little shrilly. 'I'm great!'


 I have to manage this situation. I have to. 



'Jack – could you get me some water?' I hear myself saying. 'I'll 
just stay here. I'm 
feeling a bit dizzy.' Jack looks alarmed.


 'You know, I thought there was something wrong. Let me take 
you home. I'll call the car.' 


'No. It's … it's fine. I want to stay. Just get me some water. Please,' 
I add as an 
afterthought. 


As soon as he's gone I tear into the foyer, almost tripping up in 
my haste. 


'Emma!' Jemima looks up brightly. 'Excellent! I was just about to 
look for you. Now, this 
is Mick, and he wants to ask you some questions. We thought 
we'd use this little room 
here.' She heads into a small, empty office which leads off from 
the foyer.


 'No!' I say, grabbing her arm. 'Jemima, you have to go. Now. Go!' 


'I'm not going anywhere!' Jemima jerks her arm out of my grasp 
and rolls her eyes at 
Mick, who's closing the door of the office behind me. 'I told you 
she was being all hissy 
about it.' 


'Mick Collins,' Mick thrusts a business card into my hand. 
'Delighted to meet you, 
Emma. Now, there's no need to get worried, is there?' He gives 
me a soothing smile, as 
though he's completely used to dealing with hysterical women 
telling him to go. Which 
he probably is. 'Let's just sit down quietly, have a nice chat …' 


He's chewing gum as he speaks, and as I smell the spearmint 
wafting towards me, I 



almost want to throw up. 

'Look, there's been a misunderstanding,' I say, forcing myself to 
sound polite. 'I'm afraid 
there's no story.' 

'Well, let's see about that, shall we?' says Mick with a friendly 
smile. 'You tell me the 
facts …' 

'No! I mean, there's nothing.' I turn to Jemima. 'I told you I didn't 
want you to do 
anything. You promised me!' 

'Emma, you are such a wimp.' She gives Mick an exasperated 
look. 'Do you see why I've 
been forced to take action? I told you what a bastard Jack Harper 
was to her. He needs to 
learn his lesson.' 

'Absolutely right,' agrees Mick and puts his head on one side as 
though measuring me 
up. 'Very attractive,' he says to Jemima. 'You know, we could think 
about an 
accompanying interview feature. My romp with top boss. You 
could make some serious 

money,' he adds to me.

 ' No!' I say in horror. 

'Emma, stop being so coy!' snaps Jemima. 'You want to do it really. 
This could be a 

whole new career for you, you realize.'

 'I don't want a new career!' 


 'Well then you should! Do you know how much Monica Lewinsky 
makes a year?'


 'You're sick,' I say in disbelief. 'You're a totally sick, warped—'


 'Emma, I'm just acting in your best interests.' 


'You're not!' I cry, feeling my face flame red. 'I … I might be 
getting back together with 


Jack!' 


There's a thirty-second silence. I stare at her, holding my breath. 
Then it's as if the killer 
robot jerks into action again, shooting yet more rays. 


'Even more reason to do it!' says Jemima. 'This'll keep him on his 
toes. This'll show him 
who's boss. Go on, Mick.' 


'Interview with Emma Corrigan. Tuesday, 15th July, 9.40 p.m.' I 
look up, and stiffen in 
horror. Mick has produced a small tape recorder and is holding it 
towards me. 


'You first met Jack Harper on a plane. Can you confirm where this 
was flying from and 


to?' He gives me a smile. 'Just speak naturally, like you would to a 
mate on the phone.'


 'Stop it!' I yell. 'Just leave! Leave!' 


'Emma, grow up,' says Jemima impatiently. 'Mick's going to find 
out what this secret is 


whether you help him or not, so you might as well be—' She stops 
abruptly as the door 
handle rattles, then turns. 



The room seems to swim around me.

 Please don't say – please— 

As the door slowly opens, I can't breathe. I can't move.

 I have never felt so frightened in my entire life. 

'Emma?' says Jack, coming in, holding two glasses of water in one 
hand. 'Are you 
feeling OK? I got you both still and sparkling, because I wasn't 
quite …' 

He tails off, his eyes running confusedly over Jemima and Mick. 
With a flicker of 
bewilderment, he takes in Mick's card, still in my hand. Then his 
gaze falls on the turning 
tape recorder and something slides out of his face. 

'I think I'll just make myself scarce,' murmurs Mick, raising his 
eyebrows at Jemima. He 
slips the tape recording into his pocket, picks up his rucksack and 
sidles out of the room. 
Nobody speaks for a few moments. All I can hear is the throbbing 
in my head.

 'Who was that?' says Jack at last. 'A journalist?' 

All the light has gone from his eyes. He looks as though someone 
just stamped on his 
garden.

 'I … Jack …' I say huskily. 'It's not … it's not …' 

'Why …' He rubs his brow, as though trying to make sense of the 
situation. 'Why were 
you talking to a journalist?' 


'Why do you think she was talking to a journalist?' chimes in 
Jemima proudly.

 'What?' Jack's gaze swivels to her with dislike. 

'You think you're such a bigshot millionaire! You think you can use 
little people. You 
think you can give away someone's private secrets and 
completely humiliate them and get 
away with it. Well, you can't!' 

She takes a few steps towards him, folding her arms and lifting 
her chin with 
satisfaction. 'Emma's been waiting for a chance to get her 
revenge on you, and now she's 
found it! That was a journalist, if you want to know. And he's on 
your case. And when 
you find your little Scottish secret plastered all over the papers, 
then maybe you'll know 
what it feel like to be betrayed! And maybe you'll be sorry. Tell 
him, Emma! Tell him!'

 But I'm paralysed. 

The minute she said the word Scottish I saw Jack's face change. It 
kind of snapped. He 
almost seemed winded with shock. He looked straight at me and I 
could see the growing 
disbelief in his eyes. 

'You might think you know Emma, but you don't,' Jemima is 
continuing delightedly, like 
a cat tearing apart its prey. 'You underestimated her, Jack Harper. 
You underestimated 
what she's capable of.'

 Shut up! I'm screaming internally. It's not true! Jack, I would 
never, I would never … 


But nothing in my body will move. I can't even swallow. I'm 
pinioned, staring helplessly 

at him with a face I know is covered with guilt. 
Jack opens his mouth, then closes it again. Then he turns on his 
heel, pushes the door 

open and walks out. 
For a moment there's silence in the tiny room. 
'Well!' says Jemima, smacking her hands triumphantly, 'That 

showed him!'

 It's as though she breaks the spell. Suddenly I can move again. I 
can draw breath. 
'You …' I'm almost shaking too much to speak. 'You stupid … 

stupid … thoughtless … 
bitch!' 
The door bursts open and Lissy appears, wide-eyed. 
'What the hell happened here?' she demands. 'I just saw Jack 


storming out. He looked 
absolutely like thunder!' 
'She brought a journalist here!' I say in anguish, gesturing at 


Jemima. 'A bloody tabloid 
journalist. And Jack found us all closeted here, and he thinks … 
God know what he 

thinks …' 
'You stupid cow!' Lissy slaps Jemima across the face. 'What were 
you thinking.' 


 'Ow! I was helping Emma get vengeance on her enemy.' 


'He's not my enemy , you stupid …' I'm on the verge of tears. 
'Lissy … what am I going 


to do? What?'


 'Go,' she says, and looks at me with anxious eyes. 'You can still 
catch him. Go.' 


I pelt out of the door and through the courtyard, my chest rising 
and falling rapidly, my 


lungs burning. When I reach the road I look frantically left and 
right. Then I spot him, 
down the road.


 'Jack, wait.' 


He's striding along with his mobile phone to his ear, and at my 
voice he turns round with 
a taut face.


 'So that's why you were so interested in Scotland.' 


'No!' I say, aghast. 'No! Listen, Jack, they don't know. They don't 
know anything, I 
promise. I didn't tell them about—' I stop myself. 'All Jemima 
knows is that you were 
there. Nothing more. She was bluffing. I haven't said anything.'


 Jack doesn't answer. He gives me a long look, then starts striding 
again. 


'It was Jemima who called that guy, not me!' I cry desperately, 
running after him. 'I was 
trying to stop her … Jack, you know me! You know I would never 
do this to you. Yes, I 



told Jemima about you being in Scotland. I was hurt, and I was 
angry, and it … came out. 
And that was a mistake. But … but you made a mistake too, and I 
forgave you.' 


He's not even looking at me. He's not even giving me a chance. 
His silver car pulls up at 
the pavement, and he opens the passenger door.


 I feel a stab of panic. 


'Jack, this wasn't me,' I say frantically. 'It wasn't. You have to 
believe me. That's not why 
I asked about Scotland! I didn't want to … to sell your secret!' 
Tears are streaming down 
my face, and I brush them away roughly. 'I didn't even want to 
know such a big secret. I 
just wanted to know your little secrets! Your little stupid secrets! I 
just wanted to know 
you … like you know me.' 


But he doesn't look round. The car door closes with a heavy clunk, 
and the car moves 
away down the road. And I'm left on the pavement, all alone. 


TWENTY-SIX 

For a while I can't move. I stand there, dazed, with the breeze 
blowing on my face, 
staring at the point at the end of the road where Jack's car 
disappeared. I can still hear his 
voice in my mind. I can still see his face. The way he looked at me 
as though he didn't 
know me, after all. 


A spasm of pain runs through my body and I close my eyes, 
almost unable to bear it. If I 
could just turn back time … if I'd been more forceful … if I'd 
marched Jemima and her 
friend off the premises … if I'd spoken up more quickly when Jack 
appeared …

 But I didn't. And it's too late. 

A group of party guests comes out of the courtyard onto the 
pavement, laughing and 
discussing taxis.

 'Are you all right?' says one curiously to me, and I give a start. 

'Yes,' I say. 'Thanks.' I look one more time at where Jack's car 
disappeared, then force 
myself to turn around and make my way slowly back up to the 
party. 

I find Lissy and Jemima still in the little office, Jemima cowering in 
terror as Lissy lays 
into her. 

 '… selfish immature little bitch! You make me sick, you know 
that?' 

I once heard someone say Lissy was a Rottweiler in court, and I 
could never understand 
it. But now, as I watch her striding up and down, her eyes blazing 
in fury, I'm actually 

pretty scared myself.

 'Emma, make her stop!' pleads Jemima. 'Make her stop shouting 
at me.' 


'So … what happened?' Lissy looks at me, her face alight with 
hope. Mutely, I shake my 

head.

 'Is he—'

 'He's gone.' I swallow. 'I don't really want to talk about it.'

 'Oh, Emma.' She bites her lip. 

'Don't,' I say in a wobbly voice. 'I'll cry.' I lean against the wall and 
take a couple of deep 
breaths, trying to get back to normal. 'Where's her friend?' I say 
at last, and jerk my 
thumb at Jemima. 

'He got thrown out,' says Lissy with satisfaction. 'He was trying to 
take a picture of 
Justice Hugh Morris in his tights, and a bunch of lawyers 
surrounded him and bundled 
him out.' 

'Jemima, listen to me.' I force myself to meet her unrepentant 
blue gaze. 'You cannot let 
him find out any more. You cannot .' 

'It's OK,' she says sulkily. 'I've already spoken to him. Lissy made 
me. He won't pursue 
it.'

 'How do you know?'

 'He won't do anything that would piss Mummy off. He has a 
pretty lucrative arrangement 
with her.'

 I shoot Lissy a 'can we trust her?' look, and she gives a doubtful 
shrug. 


'Jemima, this is a warning.' I walk to the door, then turn round 
with a stern face. 'If 
anything of this gets out – anything at all – I will make it public 
that you snore.'


 'I don't snore!' says Jemima tartly. 


'Yes you do,' says Lissy. 'When you've had too much to drink you 
snore really loudly. 
And we'll tell everyone you got your Donna Karan coat from a 
discount warehouse shop.' 


 Jemima gasps in horror. 
'I didn't!' she says, colour suffusing her cheeks. 
'You did. I saw the carrier bag,' I chime in. ' Andwe'll make it 
public that you once asked 


for a serviette, not a napkin.'


 Jemima claps a hand over her mouth.


 '… and your pearls are cultured, not real …'


 '… and you never really cook the food at your dinner parties …'


 '… and that photo of you meeting Prince William is faked …' 


'… and we'll tell every single man you ever date from now on that 
all you're after is a 



rock on your finger!' I finish, and glance gratefully at Lissy. 


'OK!' says Jemima, practically in tears. 'OK! I promise I'll forget all 
about it. I promise. 
Just please don't mention the discount warehouse shop. Please. 
Can I go now?' She looks 
imploringly at Lissy. 


'Yes, you can go,' says Lissy contemptuously, and Jemima scuttles 
out of the room. As 
the door closes, I stare at Lissy.

 'Is that photo of Jemima and Prince William really faked?' 
'Yes! Didn't I tell you? I once did some stuff for her on her 
computer, and I opened the 

file by mistake – and there it was. She just pasted her head onto 
some other girl's body!' 
I can't help giving a giggle.

 'That girl is unbelievable.' 
I sink into a chair, feeling suddenly weak, and for a while there's 
silence. In the distance 

there's a roar of laughter from the party, and somebody walks 
past the door of the office, 
talking about the trouble with the judiciary system as it stands …


 'Wouldn't he even listen?' says Lissy at last. 
'No. He just left.' 
'Isn't that a bit extreme? I mean, he gave away all your secrets. 
You only gave away one 


of his—' 

'You don't understand,' I stare at the drab brown office carpet. 
'What Jack told me, it's not 

just anything. It's something really precious to him. He came all 
the way here to tell me. 
To show me that he trusted me with it.' I swallow hard. 'And the 
next moment he finds 
me spilling it to a journalist.'

 'But you weren't!' says Lissy loyally. 'Emma, this wasn't your 
fault!' 

'It was!' Tears are welling up in my eyes. 'If I'd just kept my mouth 
closed, if I'd never 
told Jemima anything in the first place …' 

'She would have got him anyway,' says Lissy. 'He'd be suing you 
for a scraped car 
instead. Or damaged genitals.'

 I give a shaky laugh. 

The door bursts open, and the feathered guy I saw backstage 
looks in. 'Lissy! There you 
are. They're serving food. It looks rather good, actually.'

 'OK,' she says. 'Thanks, Colin. I'll be along in a minute.'

 He leaves and Lissy turns to me.

 'Do you want something to eat?' 

'I'm not really hungry. But you go,' I add quickly. 'You must be 
starving after your 
performance.' 


'I am rather ravenous,' she admits. Then she gives me an anxious 
look. 'But what will 
you do?' 


'I'll … just go home,' I say, and try to smile as cheerfully as I can. 
'Don't worry, Lissy, I'll 
be fine.' 


And I am planning to go home. But when I get outside I find I can't 
bring myself to. I'm 
wound up with tension like a metal coil. I can't face going into the 
party and having to 
make small talk – but I can't face the four silent walls of my 
bedroom either. Not quite 
yet. 


Instead, I head across the gravel, towards the empty auditorium. 
The door is unlocked 
and I walk straight in. I make my way through the darkness to a 
seat in the middle, and 
wearily sit down on the cushiony purple plush. 


And as I stare at the silent blackness of the empty stage, two fat 
tears make their way out 
of my eyes and trickle slowly down my face. I cannot believe I've 
fucked up so 
monumentally. I can't believe Jack really thinks I … that he thinks I 
would … 


I keep seeing the shock on his face. I keep reliving that trapped 
powerlessness, that 


desperation to speak; to explain myself.


 If I could just replay it …


 Suddenly there's a creaking sound. The door is slowly opening. 



I peer uncertainly through the gloom as a figure comes into the 
auditorium and stops. In 
spite of myself, my heart starts to thud with unbearable hope.

 It's Jack. It has to be Jack. He's come to find me. 
There's a long, agonizing silence. I'm taut with apprehension. Why 
won't he say 
anything? Why won't he speak? 

Is he punishing me? Is he expecting me to apologize again? Oh 
God, this is torture. Just 
say something, I plead silently. Just say something . 
'Oh Francesca …'

 'Connor …' 
What? I peer again, more sharply, and feel a crash of 
disappointment. I am such a moron. 

It's not Jack. It's not one figure, it's two. It's Connor and what must 
be his new girlfriend – 
and they're snogging. 


Miserably, I shrink right down in my seat, trying to block my ears. 
But it's no good, I can 
hear everything.


 'Do you like this?' I hear Connor murmuring. 
'Mmm …' 
'Do you really like it?' 
'Of course I do! Stop quizzing me!' 



 'Sorry,' says Connor, and there's silence, apart from the odd 
'Mmmm'.


 'Do you like this ?' his voice suddenly comes again.


 'I already told you I did.' 


'Francesca, be honest, OK?' Connor's voice rises in agitation. 
'Because if that means no, 
then—'


 'It doesn't mean no! Connor, what's your problem?' 


 'My problem is, I don't believe you.' 
'You don't believe me?' She sounds furious. 'Why the hell don't 
you believe me?' 
Suddenly I'm filled with remorse. This is all my fault. Not only 
have I wrecked my own 


relationship, now I've wrecked theirs too. I have to do something. I 
have to try to build 
bridges.


 I clear my throat. 'Er … excuse me?'


 'Who the fuck's that?' says Francesca sharply. 'Is someone there?'


 'It's me. Emma. Connor's ex-girlfriend.' 


A row of lights goes on, and I see a girl with red hair staring at me 
belligerently, with her 
hand on the light switch. 



 'What the hell are you doing? Spying on us?' 
'No!' I say. 'Look, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to … I couldn't help 
overhearing …' I swallow. 
'The thing is, Connor isn't being difficult. He just wants you to be 
honest. He wants to 


know what you want.' I summon up my most understanding, 
womanly expression. 
'Francesca … tell him what you want.'


 Francesca stares at me incredulously, then looks at Connor. 
'I want her to piss off.' She points at me. 
'Oh,' I say, taken aback. 'Er, OK. Sorry.' 


'And switch the lights off when you go,' adds Francesca, leading 
Connor up the aisle 
towards the back of the auditorium. 
Are they going to have sex ?


 OK, I really do not want to be around for this. 
Hastily I pick up my bag and hurry along the row of seats towards 
the exit. I push my 

way through the double doors into the foyer, flicking the light 
switch as I pass, then step 
out into the courtyard. I close the door behind me, and look up. 

And then I freeze. 
I don't believe it. It's Jack. 


It's Jack, coming towards me, striding fast across the courtyard, 
determination on his 
face. I haven't got time to think, or prepare.


 My heart really is racing. I want to speak or cry or … do 
something , but I can't. 


He reaches me with a crunch of gravel, takes me by the 
shoulders, and gives me a long, 
intense look.


 'I'm afraid of the dark.'


 'What?' I falter. 


'I'm afraid of the dark. Always have been. I keep a baseball bat 
under the bed, just in 
case.'


 I stare at him in utter bewilderment.


 'Jack—'


 'I've never liked caviar.' He casts around. 'I … I'm embarrassed by 
my French accent.'


 'Jack, what are you—' 


'I got the scar on my wrist by cracking open a bottle of beer when 
I was fourteen. When I 
was a kid I used to stick gum under my Aunt Francine's dining 
table. I lost my virginity to 
a girl named Lisa Greenwood in her uncle's barn, and afterwards I 
asked if I could keep 
her bra to show my friends.' 


I can't help giving a snuffle of laughter, but Jack carries on 
regardless, his gaze fixed on 
mine. 



'I've never worn any of the ties my mother has given me for 
Christmas. I've always 
wanted to be an inch or two taller than I am. I … I don't know 
what co-dependent means. 
I have a recurring dream in which I'm Superman, falling from the 
sky. I sometimes sit in 
board meetings and look around and think "Who the hell are 
these guys?"'

 He draws breath and gazes at me. His eyes are darker than I've 
ever seen them. 
'I met a girl on a plane. And … my whole life changed as a result.' 
Something hot is welling up inside me. My throat is tight, my 
whole head aching. I'm 

trying so hard not to cry, but my face is contorting all by itself.

 'Jack,' I swallow desperately. 'I didn't … I really didn't …'

 'I know,' he cuts me off with a nod. 'I know you didn't.' 

 'I would never—' 
'I know you wouldn't,' he says gently. 'I know you wouldn't.' 
And now I can't help it, tears start flooding out of my eyes in 
sheer relief. He knows. It's 

OK. 
'So …' I wipe my face, trying to gain control of myself. 'So does 
this … does this mean 

… that we I can't bring myself to say the words. 

There's a long, unbearable silence. 


 If he says no, I don't know what I'll do. 


'Well, you might want to hold back on your decision,' says Jack at 
last, and gives me a 


deadpan look. 'Because I have a lot more to tell you. And it isn't 
all pretty.'


 I give a shaky laugh.


 'You don't have to tell me anything.' 


'Oh, I do,' says Jack firmly. 'I think I do. Shall we walk?' He 
gestures to the courtyard. 


'Because this could take some time.' 


'OK,' I say, my voice still wobbling a bit. Jack holds out an arm, 


and after a pause, I take it. 
'So … where was I?' he says, as we step down into the courtyard. 
'Oh, OK. Now this you really can't tell anybody.' He leans close 
and lowers his voice. 'I don't actually like 


Panther Cola. I prefer Pepsi.'


 'No!'I say, shocked.


 'In fact, sometimes I decant Pepsi into a Panther can—' 



 'No!' I give a snort of laughter.

 'It's true. I told you it wasn't pretty …' 

Slowly we start to walk around the edge of the dark, empty 
courtyard together. The only 

sound is the crunching of our feet on the gravel, and the breeze in 
the trees and Jack's dry 
voice, talking. Telling me everything. 

TWENTY-SEVEN 

It's amazing what a different person I am these days. It's as if I've 
been transformed. I'm 
a new Emma. Far more open than I used to be. Far more honest. 
Because what I've really 
learned is, if you can't be honest with your friends and colleagues 
and loved ones, then 
what is life all about? 

The only secrets I have nowadays are tiny little essential ones. 
And I hardly have any of 
those. I could probably count them on the fingers of one hand. I 
mean, just off the top of 
my head:

 1. I'm really not sure about Mum's new highlights. 
2. That Greek-style cake Lissy made for my birthday was the most 
disgusting thing I've ever tasted. 
3. I borrowed Jemima's Ralph Lauren swimsuit to go on holiday 
with Mum and Dad, and I bust one of the straps. 
4. The other day when I was navigating in the car, I nearly said 
'What's this big river all round London?' Then I realized it was the 
M25. 
5. I had this really weird dream last week, about Lissy and Sven. 

6. I've secretly starting feeding Artemis's spider plant 'Rebuild' 
plant food. 
7. I'm sure Sammy the goldfish has changed again. Where did 
that extra fin come from? 
8. I know I have to stop giving out my 'Emma Corrigan, Marketing 
Executive' card to complete strangers, but I just can't help it. 
9. I don't know what advanced pro-ceramides are. (I don't even 
know what backward pro-ceramides are.) 
10. Last night, when Jack said 'What are you thinking about?' and 
I said 'Oh nothing …' that wasn't quite true. I was actually 
planning the names of all our children. But the thing is, it's 
completely normal to have the odd little secret from your 
boyfriend. 
Everyone knows that. 
THE END 


