Marley & Me
Life and Love with
the World’s Worst Dog
? John Grogan
?
In memory of my father, Richard Frank Grogan,
whose gentle spirit infuses every page of this book
?
Contents
Preface: The Perfect Dog
vi
1. And Puppy Makes Three 1
2. Running with the Blue Bloods
3. Homeward Bound
4. Mr.Wiggles
5. The Test Strip
6. Matters of the Heart
7. Master and Beast
8. A Battle of Wills
9. The Stuff Males Are Made Of
10. The Luck of the Irish
11. The Things He Ate
12. Welcome to the Indigent Ward
13. A Scream in the Night
14. An Early Arrival
15. A Postpartum Ultimatum
16. The Audition
15
21
33
47
55
71
83
101
115
131
145
159
175
191
211
?
v Contents
17. In the Land of Bocahontas
Acknowledgments
About the Author
Credits
Cover
Copyright
About the Publisher
229
18. Alfresco Dining 247
19. Lightning Strikes 261
20. Dog Beach 275
21. A Northbound Plane 293
24. The Potty Room 339
22. In the Land of Pencils 307
23. Poultry on Parade 323
25. Beating the Odds 355
26. Borrowed Time 367
27. The Big Meadow 379
28. Beneath the Cherry Trees 391
29. The Bad Dog Club 403
417
Preface
The Perfect Dog
?
In the summer of 1967, when I was ten years old, my father
caved in to my persistent pleas and took me to get
my own dog. Together we drove in the family station
wagon far into the Michigan countryside to a farm run by a
rough-hewn woman and her ancient mother. The farm produced
just one commodity—dogs. Dogs of every imaginable
size and shape and age and temperament. They had only two
things in common: each was a mongrel of unknown and indistinct
ancestry, and each was free to a good home. We were at a
mutt ranch.
“Now, take your time, son,” Dad said.“Your decision today is
going to be with you for many years to come.”
I quickly decided the older dogs were somebody else’s
charity case. I immediately raced to the puppy cage.“You want
to pick one that’s not timid,” my father coached. “Try rattling
the cage and see which ones aren’t afraid.”
I grabbed the chain-link gate and yanked on it with a loud
clang. The dozen or so puppies reeled backward, collapsing
vii
?
Preface
on top of one another in a squiggling heap of fur. Just one remained.
He was gold with a white blaze on his chest, and he
charged the gate, yapping fearlessly. He jumped up and excitedly
licked my fingers through the fencing. It was love at first
sight.
I brought him home in a cardboard box and named him
Shaun. He was one of those dogs that give dogs a good name.
He effortlessly mastered every command I taught him and was
naturally well behaved. I could drop a crust on the floor and
he would not touch it until I gave the okay. He came when I
called him and stayed when I told him to. We could let him out
alone at night, knowing he would be back after making his
rounds. Not that we often did, but we could leave him alone in
the house for hours, confident he wouldn’t have an accident
or disturb a thing. He raced cars without chasing them and
walked beside me without a leash. He could dive to the bottom
of our lake and emerge with rocks so big they sometimes
got stuck in his jaws. He loved nothing more than riding in the
car and would sit quietly in the backseat beside me on family
road trips, content to spend hours gazing out the window at
the passing world. Perhaps best of all, I trained him to pull me
through the neighborhood dog-sled-style as I sat on my bicycle,
making me the hands-down envy of my friends. Never
once did he lead me into hazard.
He was with me when I smoked my first cigarette (and my
last) and when I kissed my first girl. He was right there beside
me in the front seat when I snuck out my older brother’s Corvair
for my first joyride.
Shaun was spirited but controlled, affectionate but calm.
He even had the dignified good manners to back himself modestly
into the bushes before squatting to do his duty, only his
head peering out. Thanks to this tidy habit, our lawn was safe
for bare feet.
?
Preface viii
Relatives would visit for the weekend and return home determined
to buy a dog of their own, so impressed were they
with Shaun—or “Saint Shaun,” as I came to call him. It was a
family joke, the saint business, but one we could almost believe.
Born with the curse of uncertain lineage, he was one of
the tens of thousands of unwanted dogs in America. Yet by
some stroke of almost providential good fortune, he became
wanted. He came into my life and I into his—and in the process,
he gave me the childhood every kid deserves.
The love affair lasted fourteen years, and by the time he
died I was no longer the little boy who had brought him home
on that summer day. I was a man, out of college and working
across the state in my first real job. Saint Shaun had stayed behind
when I moved on. It was where he belonged. My parents,
by then retired, called to break the news to me. My mother
would later tell me, “In fifty years of marriage, I’ve only seen
your father cry twice. The first time was when we lost Mary
Ann”—my sister, who was stillborn.“The second time was the
day Shaun died.”
Saint Shaun of my childhood. He was a perfect dog. At least
that’s how I will always remember him. It was Shaun who set
the standard by which I would judge all other dogs to come.

C H A P T E R 1
And Puppy Makes Three
?
We were young. We were in love. We were
rollicking in those sublime early days of
marriage when life seems about as good as life
can get.
We could not leave well enough alone.
And so on a January evening in 1991, my wife of
fifteen months and I ate a quick dinner together
and headed off to answer a classified ad in the
Palm Beach Post.
Why we were doing this, I wasn’t quite sure. A
few weeks earlier I had awoken just after dawn to
find the bed beside me empty. I got up and found
Jenny sitting in her bathrobe at the glass table on
the screened porch of our little bungalow, bent
over the newspaper with a pen in her hand.
There was nothing unusual about the scene.
Not only was the Palm Beach Post our local pa2
John Grogan
per, it was also the source of half of our household
income. We were a two-newspaper-career
couple. Jenny worked as a feature writer in the
Post’s “Accent” section; I was a news reporter at
the competing paper in the area, the South Florida
Sun-Sentinel, based an hour south in Fort Lauderdale.
We began every morning poring over the
newspapers, seeing how our stories were played
and how they stacked up to the competition. We
circled, underlined, and clipped with abandon.
But on this morning, Jenny’s nose was not in the
news pages but in the classified section. When I
stepped closer, I saw she was feverishly circling
beneath the heading “Pets—Dogs.”
“Uh,” I said in that new-husband, stilltreading-
gently voice. “Is there something I
should know?”
She did not answer.
“Jen-Jen?”
“It’s the plant,” she finally said, her voice carrying
a slight edge of desperation.
“The plant?” I asked.
“That dumb plant,” she said. “The one we
killed.”
The one we killed? I wasn’t about to press the
point, but for the record it was the plant that I
bought and she killed. I had surprised her with it
one night, a lovely large dieffenbachia with
Marley & Me 3
emerald-and-cream variegated leaves. “What’s
the occasion?” she’d asked. But there was none.
I’d given it to her for no reason other than to say,
“Damn, isn’t married life great?”
She had adored both the gesture and the plant
and thanked me by throwing her arms around my
neck and kissing me on the lips. Then she
promptly went on to kill my gift to her with an assassin’s
coldhearted efficiency. Not that she was
trying to; if anything, she nurtured the poor thing
to death. Jenny didn’t exactly have a green thumb.
Working on the assumption that all living things
require water, but apparently forgetting that they
also need air, she began flooding the dieffenbachia
on a daily basis.
“Be careful not to overwater it,” I had warned.
“Okay,” she had replied, and then dumped on
another gallon.
The sicker the plant got, the more she doused
it, until finally it just kind of melted into an oozing
heap. I looked at its limp skeleton in the pot
by the window and thought, Man, someone who
believes in omens could have a field day with
this one.
Now here she was, somehow making the cosmic
leap of logic from dead flora in a pot to living
fauna in the pet classifieds. Kill a plant, buy a
puppy. Well, of course it made perfect sense.
4 John Grogan
I looked more closely at the newspaper in front
of her and saw that one ad in particular seemed to
have caught her fancy. She had drawn three fat red
stars beside it. It read: “Lab puppies, yellow. AKC
purebred. All shots. Parents on premises.”
“So,” I said, “can you run this plant-pet thing
by me one more time?”
“You know,” she said, looking up. “I tried so
hard and look what happened. I can’t even keep a
stupid houseplant alive. I mean, how hard is that?
All you need to do is water the damn thing.”
Then she got to the real issue: “If I can’t even
keep a plant alive, how am I ever going to keep a
baby alive?” She looked like she might start crying.
The Baby Thing, as I called it, had become a
constant in Jenny’s life and was getting bigger by
the day. When we had first met, at a small newspaper
in western Michigan, she was just a few
months out of college, and serious adulthood still
seemed a far distant concept. For both of us, it
was our first professional job out of school. We ate
a lot of pizza, drank a lot of beer, and gave exactly
zero thought to the possibility of someday being
anything other than young, single, unfettered consumers
of pizza and beer.
But years passed. We had barely begun dating
when various job opportunities—and a one-year
postgraduate program for me—pulled us in differMarley
& Me 5
ent directions across the eastern United States. At
first we were one hour’s drive apart. Then we were
three hours apart. Then eight, then twenty-four.
By the time we both landed together in South
Florida and tied the knot, she was nearly thirty.
Her friends were having babies. Her body was
sending her strange messages. That once seemingly
eternal window of procreative opportunity
was slowly lowering.
I leaned over her from behind, wrapped my
arms around her shoulders, and kissed the top of
her head. “It’s okay,” I said. But I had to admit,
she raised a good question. Neither of us had ever
really nurtured a thing in our lives. Sure, we’d had
pets growing up, but they didn’t really count. We
always knew our parents would keep them alive
and well. We both knew we wanted to one day
have children, but was either of us really up for
the job? Children were so . . . so . . . scary. They
were helpless and fragile and looked like they
would break easily if dropped.
A little smile broke out on Jenny’s face. “I
thought maybe a dog would be good practice,”
she said.
As we drove through the darkness, heading northwest
out of town where the suburbs of West Palm
6 John Grogan
Beach fade into sprawling country properties, I
thought through our decision to bring home a dog.
It was a huge responsibility, especially for two people
with full-time jobs. Yet we knew what we were
in for. We’d both grown up with dogs and loved
them immensely. I’d had Saint Shaun and Jenny
had had Saint Winnie, her family’s beloved English
setter. Our happiest childhood memories almost all
included those dogs. Hiking with them, swimming
with them, playing with them, getting in trouble
with them. If Jenny really only wanted a dog to
hone her parenting skills, I would have tried to talk
her in off the ledge and maybe placate her with a
goldfish. But just as we knew we wanted children
someday, we knew with equal certainty that our
family home would not be complete without a dog
sprawled at our feet. When we were dating, long
before children ever came on our radar, we spent
hours discussing our childhood pets, how much we
missed them and how we longed someday—once
we had a house to call our own and some stability
in our lives—to own a dog again.
Now we had both. We were together in a place
we did not plan to leave anytime soon. And we had
a house to call our very own.
It was a perfect little house on a perfect little
quarter-acre fenced lot just right for a dog. And
the location was just right, too, a funky city neighMarley
& Me 7
borhood one and a half blocks off the Intracoastal
Waterway separating West Palm Beach from the
rarified mansions of Palm Beach. At the foot of
our street, Churchill Road, a linear green park and
paved trail stretched for miles along the waterfront.
It was ideal for jogging and bicycling and
Rollerblading. And, more than anything, for walking
a dog.
The house was built in the 1950s and had an Old
Florida charm—a fireplace, rough plaster walls,
big airy windows, and French doors leading to our
favorite space of all, the screened back porch. The
yard was a little tropical haven, filled with palms
and bromeliads and avocado trees and brightly
colored coleus plants. Dominating the property
was a towering mango tree; each summer it
dropped its heavy fruit with loud thuds that
sounded, somewhat grotesquely, like bodies being
thrown off the roof. We would lie awake in bed
and listen: Thud! Thud! Thud!
We bought the two-bedroom, one-bath bungalow
a few months after we returned from our honeymoon
and immediately set about refurbishing
it. The prior owners, a retired postal clerk and his
wife, loved the color green. The exterior stucco
was green. The interior walls were green. The
curtains were green. The shutters were green.
The front door was green. The carpet, which they
8 John Grogan
had just purchased to help sell the house, was
green. Not a cheery kelly green or a cool emerald
green or even a daring lime green but a pukeyour-
guts-out-after-split-pea-soup green accented
with khaki trim. The place had the feel of
an army field barracks.
On our first night in the house, we ripped up
every square inch of the new green carpeting and
dragged it to the curb. Where the carpet had been,
we discovered a pristine oak plank floor that, as
best we could tell, had never suffered the scuff of
a single shoe. We painstakingly sanded and varnished
it to a high sheen. Then we went out and
blew the better part of two weeks’ pay for a handwoven
Persian rug, which we unfurled in the living
room in front of the fireplace. Over the months,
we repainted every green surface and replaced
every green accessory. The postal clerk’s house
was slowly becoming our own.
Once we got the joint just right, of course, it
only made sense that we bring home a large, fourlegged
roommate with sharp toenails, large teeth,
and exceedingly limited English-language skills to
start tearing it apart again.
“Slow down, dingo, or you’re going to miss it,”
Jenny scolded. “It should be coming up any secMarley
& Me 9
ond.” We were driving through inky blackness
across what had once been swampland, drained after
World War II for farming and later colonized
by suburbanites seeking a country lifestyle.
As Jenny predicted, our headlights soon illuminated
a mailbox marked with the address we were
looking for. I turned up a gravel drive that led into
a large wooded property with a pond in front of
the house and a small barn out back. At the door, a
middle-aged woman named Lori greeted us, a big,
placid yellow Labrador retriever by her side.
“This is Lily, the proud mama,” Lori said after
we introduced ourselves. We could see that five
weeks after birth Lily’s stomach was still swollen
and her teats pronounced. We both got on our
knees, and she happily accepted our affection. She
was just what we pictured a Lab would be—sweetnatured,
affectionate, calm, and breathtakingly
beautiful.
“Where’s the father?” I asked.
“Oh,” the woman said, hesitating for just a fraction
of a second. “Sammy Boy? He’s around here
somewhere.” She quickly added, “I imagine
you’re dying to see the puppies.”
She led us through the kitchen out to a utility
room that had been drafted into service as a nursery.
Newspapers covered the floor, and in one corner
was a low box lined with old beach towels. But
10 John Grogan
we hardly noticed any of that. How could we with
nine tiny yellow puppies stumbling all over one
another as they clamored to check out the latest
strangers to drop by? Jenny gasped. “Oh my,” she
said. “I don’t think I’ve ever seen anything so cute
in my life.”
We sat on the floor and let the puppies climb all
over us as Lily happily bounced around, tail wagging
and nose poking each of her offspring to
make sure all was well. The deal I had struck with
Jenny when I agreed to come here was that we
would check the pups out, ask some questions,
and keep an open mind as to whether we were
ready to bring home a dog. “This is the first ad
we’re answering,” I had said. “Let’s not make any
snap decisions.” But thirty seconds into it, I could
see I had already lost the battle. There was no
question that before the night was through one of
these puppies would be ours.
Lori was what is known as a backyard breeder.
When it came to buying a purebred dog, we were
pure novices, but we had read enough to know to
steer clear of the so-called puppy mills, those
commercial breeding operations that churn out
purebreds like Ford churns out Tauruses. Unlike
mass-produced cars, however, mass-produced
pedigree puppies can come with serious hereditary
problems, running the gamut from hip dysMarley
& Me 11
plasia to early blindness, brought on by multigenerational
inbreeding.
Lori, on the other hand, was a hobbyist, motivated
more by love of the breed than by profit.
She owned just one female and one male. They
had come from distinct bloodlines, and she had
the paper trail to prove it. This would be Lily’s
second and final litter before she retired to the
good life of a countrified family pet. With both
parents on the premises, the buyer could see firsthand
the lineage—although in our case, the father
apparently was outside and out of pocket.
The litter consisted of five females, all but one
of which already had deposits on them, and four
males. Lori was asking $400 for the remaining female
and $375 for the males. One of the males
seemed particularly smitten with us. He was the
goofiest of the group and charged into us, somersaulting
into our laps and clawing his way up our
shirts to lick our faces. He gnawed on our fingers
with surprisingly sharp baby teeth and stomped
clumsy circles around us on giant tawny paws that
were way out of proportion to the rest of his body.
“That one there you can have for three-fifty,” the
owner said.
Jenny is a rabid bargain hunter who has been
known to drag home all sorts of things we neither
want nor need simply because they were priced
12 John Grogan
too attractively to pass up. “I know you don’t
golf,” she said to me one day as she pulled a set of
used clubs out of the car. “But you wouldn’t believe
the deal I got on these.” Now I saw her eyes
brighten. “Aw, honey,” she cooed. “The little
guy’s on clearance!”
I had to admit he was pretty darn adorable.
Frisky, too. Before I realized what he was up to,
the rascal had half my watchband chewed off.
“We have to do the scare test,” I said. Many
times before I had recounted for Jenny the story of
picking out Saint Shaun when I was a boy, and my
father teaching me to make a sudden move or loud
noise to separate the timid from the self-assured.
Sitting in this heap of pups, she gave me that roll
of the eyes that she reserved for odd Groganfamily
behavior. “Seriously,” I said. “It works.”
I stood up, turned away from the puppies, then
swung quickly back around, taking a sudden, exaggerated
step toward them. I stomped my foot
and barked out, “Hey!” None seemed too concerned
by this stranger’s contortions. But only one
plunged forward to meet the assault head-on. It
was Clearance Dog. He plowed full steam into me,
throwing a cross-body block across my ankles and
pouncing at my shoelaces as though convinced
they were dangerous enemies that needed to be
destroyed.
Marley & Me 13
“I think it’s fate,” Jenny said.
“Ya think?” I said, scooping him up and holding
him in one hand in front of my face, studying his
mug. He looked at me with heart-melting brown
eyes and then nibbled my nose. I plopped him into
Jenny’s arms, where he did the same to her. “He
certainly seems to like us,” I said.
And so it came to be. We wrote Lori a check for
$350, and she told us we could return to take
Clearance Dog home with us in three weeks when
he was eight weeks old and weaned. We thanked
her, gave Lily one last pat, and said good-bye.
Walking to the car, I threw my arm around
Jenny’s shoulder and pulled her tight to me. “Can
you believe it?” I said. “We actually got our dog!”
“I can’t wait to bring him home,” she said.
Just as we were reaching the car, we heard a
commotion coming from the woods. Something
was crashing through the brush—and breathing
very heavily. It sounded like what you might hear
in a slasher film. And it was coming our way. We
froze, staring into the darkness. The sound grew
louder and closer. Then in a flash the thing burst
into the clearing and came charging in our direction,
a yellow blur. A very big yellow blur. As it
galloped past, not stopping, not even seeming to
notice us, we could see it was a large Labrador retriever.
But it was nothing like the sweet Lily we
14 John Grogan
had just cuddled with inside. This one was soaking
wet and covered up to its belly in mud and
burrs. Its tongue hung out wildly to one side, and
froth flew off its jowls as it barreled past. In the
split-second glimpse I got, I detected an odd,
slightly crazed, yet somehow joyous gaze in its
eyes. It was as though this animal had just seen a
ghost—and couldn’t possibly be more tickled
about it.
Then, with the roar of a stampeding herd of
buffalo, it was gone, around the back of the house
and out of sight. Jenny let out a little gasp.
“I think,” I said, a slight queasiness rising in my
gut, “we just met Dad.”
C H A P T E R 2
Running with the Blue Bloods
?
Our first official act as dog owners was to have
a fight.
It began on the drive home from the breeder’s
and continued in fits and snippets through the
next week. We could not agree on what to name
our Clearance Dog. Jenny shot down my suggestions,
and I shot down hers. The battle culminated
one morning before we left for work.
“Chelsea?” I said. “That is such a chick name.
No boy dog would be caught dead with the name
Chelsea.”
“Like he’ll really know,” Jenny said.
“Hunter,” I said. “Hunter is perfect.”
“Hunter? You’re kidding, right? What are you,
on some macho, sportsman trip? Way too masculine.
Besides, you’ve never hunted a day in your
life.”
16 John Grogan
“He’s a male,” I said, seething. “He’s supposed
to be masculine. Don’t turn this into one of your
feminist screeds.”
This was not going well. I had just taken off the
gloves. As Jenny wound up to counterpunch, I
quickly tried to return the deliberations to my
leading candidate. “What’s wrong with Louie?”
“Nothing, if you’re a gas-station attendant,”
she snapped.
“Hey! Watch it! That’s my grandfather’s name.
I suppose we should name him after your grandfather?
‘Good dog, Bill!’ ”
As we fought, Jenny absently walked to the
stereo and pushed the play button on the tape
deck. It was one of her marital combat strategies.
When in doubt, drown out your opponent. The
lilting reggae strains of Bob Marley began to pulse
through the speakers, having an almost instant
mellowing effect on us both.
We had only discovered the late Jamaican singer
when we moved to South Florida from Michigan.
In the white-bread backwaters of the Upper Midwest,
we’d been fed a steady diet of Bob Seger and
John Cougar Mellencamp. But here in the pulsing
ethnic stew that was South Florida, Bob Marley’s
music, even a decade after his death, was everywhere.
We heard it on the car radio as we drove
down Biscayne Boulevard. We heard it as we
Marley & Me 17
sipped cafes cubanos in Little Havana and ate Jamaican
jerk chicken in little holes-in-the-wall in
the dreary immigrant neighborhoods west of Fort
Lauderdale. We heard it as we sampled our first
conch fritters at the Bahamian Goombay Festival
in Miami’s Coconut Grove section and as we
shopped for Haitian art in Key West.
The more we explored, the more we fell in love,
both with South Florida and with each other. And
always in the background, it seemed, was Bob
Marley. He was there as we baked on the beach, as
we painted over the dingy green walls of our
house, as we awoke at dawn to the screech of wild
parrots and made love in the first light filtering
through the Brazilian pepper tree outside our
window. We fell in love with his music for what it
was, but also for what it defined, which was that
moment in our lives when we ceased being two
and became one. Bob Marley was the soundtrack
for our new life together in this strange, exotic,
rough-and-tumble place that was so unlike anywhere
we had lived before.
And now through the speakers came our favorite
song of all, because it was so achingly beautiful
and because it spoke so clearly to us. Marley’s
voice filled the room, repeating the chorus over
and over: “Is this love that I’m feeling?” And at
the exact same moment, in perfect unison, as if we
18 John Grogan
had rehearsed it for weeks, we both shouted,
“Marley!”
“That’s it!” I exclaimed. “That’s our name.”
Jenny was smiling, a good sign. I tried it on for
size. “Marley, come!” I commanded. “Marley,
stay! Good boy, Marley!”
Jenny chimed in, “You’re a cutie-wootie-woo,
Marley!”
“Hey, I think it works,” I said. Jenny did, too.
Our fight was over. We had our new puppy’s name.
The next night after dinner I came into the bedroom
where Jenny was reading and said, “I think
we need to spice the name up a little.”
“What are you talking about?” she asked. “We
both love it.”
I had been reading the registration papers from
the American Kennel Club. As a purebred
Labrador retriever with both parents properly
registered, Marley was entitled to AKC registration
as well. This was only really needed if you
planned to show or breed your dog, in which case
there was no more important piece of paper. For a
house pet, however, it was superfluous. But I had
big plans for our Marley. This was my first time
rubbing shoulders with anything resembling high
breeding, my own family included. Like Saint
Marley & Me 19
Shaun, the dog of my childhood, I was a mutt of
indistinct and undistinguished ancestry. My lineage
represented more nations than the European
Union. This dog was the closest to blue blood I
would ever get, and I wasn’t about to pass up
whatever opportunities it offered. I admit I was a
little starstruck.
“Let’s say we want to enter him in competitions,”
I said. “Have you ever seen a champion
dog with just one name? They always have big
long titles, like Sir Dartworth of Cheltenham.”
“And his master, Sir Dorkshire of West Palm
Beach,” Jenny said.
“I’m serious,” I said. “We could make money
studding him out. Do you know what people pay
for top stud dogs? They all have fancy names.”
“Whatever floats your boat, honey,” Jenny said,
and returned to her book.
The next morning, after a late night of brainstorming,
I cornered her at the bathroom sink and
said, “I came up with the perfect name.”
She looked at me skeptically. “Hit me,” she said.
“Okay. Are you ready? Here goes.” I let each
word fall slowly from my lips: “Grogan’s . . . Majestic
. . . Marley . . . of . . . Churchill.” Man, I
thought, does that sound regal.
“Man,” Jenny said, “does that sound dumb.”
I didn’t care. I was the one handling the paper20
John Grogan
work, and I had already written in the name. In
ink. Jenny could smirk all she wanted; when Grogan’s
Majestic Marley of Churchill took top honors
at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in a
few years, and I gloriously trotted him around the
ring before an adoring international television audience,
we’d see who would be laughing.
“Come on, my dorky duke,” Jenny said. “Let’s
have breakfast.”
C H A P T E R 3
Homeward Bound
?
While we counted down the days until we
could bring Marley home, I belatedly began
reading up on Labrador retrievers. I say belatedly
because virtually everything I read gave
the same strong advice: Before buying a dog,
make sure you thoroughly research the breed so
you know what you’re getting into. Oops.
An apartment dweller, for instance, probably
wouldn’t do well with a Saint Bernard. A family
with young children might want to avoid the
sometimes unpredictable chow chow. A couch potato
looking for a lapdog to idle the hours away in
front of the television would likely be driven insane
by a border collie, which needs to run and
work to be happy.
I was embarrassed to admit that Jenny and I had
done almost no research before settling on a
22 John Grogan
Labrador retriever. We chose the breed on one criterion
alone: curb appeal. We often had admired
them with their owners down on the Intracoastal
Waterway bike trail—big, dopey, playful
galumphs that seemed to love life with a passion
not often seen in this world. Even more embarrassing,
our decision was influenced not by The
Complete Dog Book, the bible of dog breeds
published by the American Kennel Club, or by
any other reputable guide. It was influenced by
that other heavyweight of canine literature, “The
Far Side” by Gary Larson. We were huge fans of
the cartoon. Larson filled his panels with witty,
urbane Labs doing and saying the darnedest
things. Yes, they talked! What wasn’t to like? Labs
were immensely amusing animals—at least in Larson’s
hands. And who couldn’t use a little more
amusement in life? We were sold.
Now, as I pored through more serious works on
the Labrador retriever, I was relieved to learn that
our choice, however ill informed, was not too
wildly off the mark. The literature was filled with
glowing testimonials about the Labrador retriever’s
loving, even-keeled personality, its gentleness
with children, its lack of aggression, and
its desire to please. Their intelligence and malleability
had made them a leading choice for
search-and-rescue training and as guide dogs for
Marley & Me 23
the blind and handicapped. All this boded well for
a pet in a home that would sooner or later likely
include children.
One guide gushed: “The Labrador retriever is
known for its intelligence, warm affection for
man, field dexterity and undying devotion to any
task.” Another marveled at the breed’s immense
loyalty. All these qualities had pushed the
Labrador retriever from a specialty sporting dog,
favored by bird hunters because of its skill at
fetching downed pheasants and ducks from frigid
waters, into America’s favorite family pet. Just the
year before, in 1990, the Labrador retriever had
knocked the cocker spaniel out of the top spot on
the American Kennel Club registry as the nation’s
most popular breed. No other breed has come
close to overtaking the Lab since. In 2004 it took
its fifteenth straight year as the AKC’s top dog,
with 146,692 Labs registered. Coming in a distant
second were golden retrievers, with 52,550, and,
in third place, German shepherds, with 46,046.
Quite by accident, we had stumbled upon a
breed America could not get enough of. All those
happy dog owners couldn’t be wrong, could they?
We had chosen a proven winner. And yet the literature
was filled with ominous caveats.
Labs were bred as working dogs and tended to
have boundless energy. They were highly social
24 John Grogan
and did not do well left alone for long periods.
They could be thick-skulled and difficult to train.
They needed rigorous daily exercise or they could
become destructive. Some were wildly excitable
and hard for even experienced dog handlers to
control. They had what could seem like eternal
puppyhoods, stretching three years or more. The
long, exuberant adolescence required extra patience
from owners.
They were muscular and bred over the centuries
to be inured to pain, qualities that served them
well as they dove into the icy waters of the North
Atlantic to assist fishermen. But in a home setting,
those same qualities also meant they could be like
the proverbial bull in the china closet. They were
big, strong, barrel-chested animals that did not always
realize their own strength. One owner would
later tell me she once tied her male Lab to the
frame of her garage door so he could be nearby
while she washed the car in the driveway. The dog
spotted a squirrel and lunged, pulling the large
steel doorframe right out of the wall.
And then I came across a sentence that struck
fear in my heart. “The parents may be one of the
best indications of the future temperament of
your new puppy. A surprising amount of behavior
is inherited.” My mind flashed back to the
frothing, mud-caked banshee that came charging
Marley & Me 25
out of the woods, the night we picked out our
puppy. Oh my, I thought. The book counseled to
insist, whenever possible, on seeing both the dam
and the sire. My mind flashed back again, this
time to the breeder’s ever-so-slight hesitation
when I asked where the father was. Oh . . . he’s
around here somewhere. And then the way she
quickly changed the topic. It was all making
sense. Dog buyers in the know would have demanded
to meet the father. And what would they
have found? A manic dervish tearing blindly
through the night as if demons were close on his
tail. I said a silent prayer that Marley had inherited
his mother’s disposition.
Individual genetics aside, purebred Labs all
share certain predictable characteristics. The
American Kennel Club sets standards for the qualities
Labrador retrievers should possess. Physically,
they are stocky and muscular, with short,
dense, weather-resistant coats. Their fur can be
black, chocolate brown, or a range of yellows,
from light cream to a rich fox red. One of the
Labrador retriever’s main distinguishing characteristics
is its thick, powerful tail, which resembles
that of an otter and can clear a coffee table in one
quick swipe. The head is large and blocky, with
powerful jaws and high-set, floppy ears. Most
Labs are about two feet tall in the withers, or top
26 John Grogan
of the shoulders, and the typical male weighs
sixty-five to eighty pounds, though some can
weigh considerably more.
But looks, according to the AKC, are not all that
make a Lab a Lab. The club’s breed standard
states: “True Labrador retriever temperament is as
much a hallmark of the breed as the ‘otter’ tail.
The ideal disposition is one of a kindly, outgoing,
tractable nature, eager to please and non-aggressive
towards man or animal. The Labrador has much
that appeals to people. His gentle ways, intelligence
and adaptability make him an ideal dog.”
An ideal dog! Endorsements did not come much
more glowing than that. The more I read, the better
I felt about our decision. Even the caveats
didn’t scare me much. Jenny and I would naturally
throw ourselves into our new dog, showering him
with attention and affection. We were dedicated to
taking as long as needed to properly train him in
obedience and social skills. We were both enthusiastic
walkers, hitting the waterfront trail nearly
every evening after work, and many mornings,
too. It would be just natural to bring our new dog
along with us on our power walks. We’d tire the
little rascal out. Jenny’s office was only a mile
away, and she came home every day for lunch, at
which time she could toss balls to him in the backMarley
& Me 27
yard to let him burn off even more of this boundless
energy we were warned about.
A week before we were to bring our dog home,
Jenny’s sister, Susan, called from Boston. She, her
husband, and their two children planned to be at
Disney World the following week; would Jenny
like to drive up and spend a few days with them? A
doting aunt who looked for any opportunity to
bond with her niece and nephew, Jenny was dying
to go. But she was torn. “I won’t be here to bring
little Marley home,” she said.
“You go,” I told her. “I’ll get the dog and have
him all settled in and waiting for you when you get
back.”
I tried to sound nonchalant, but secretly I was
overjoyed at the prospect of having the new
puppy all to myself for a few days of uninterrupted
male bonding. He was to be our joint project,
both of ours equally. But I never believed a
dog could answer to two masters, and if there
could be only one alpha leader in the household
hierarchy, I wanted it to be me. This little threeday
run would give me a head start.
A week later Jenny left for Orlando—a threeand-
a-half-hour drive away. That evening after
28 John Grogan
work, a Friday, I returned to the breeder’s house
to fetch the new addition to our lives. When Lori
brought my new dog out from the back of the
house, I gasped audibly. The tiny, fuzzy puppy we
had picked out three weeks earlier had more than
doubled in size. He came barreling at me and ran
headfirst into my ankles, collapsing in a pile at my
feet and rolling onto his back, paws in the air, in
what I could only hope was a sign of supplication.
Lori must have sensed my shock. “He’s a growing
boy, isn’t he?” she said cheerily. “You should see
him pack away the puppy chow!”
I leaned down, rubbed his belly, and said,
“Ready to go home, Marley?” It was my first time
using his new name for real, and it felt right.
In the car, I used beach towels to fashion a cozy
nest for him on the passenger seat and set him
down in it. But I was barely out of the driveway
when he began squirming and wiggling his way
out of the towels. He belly-crawled in my direction
across the seat, whimpering as he advanced.
At the center console, Marley met the first of the
countless predicaments he would find himself in
over the course of his life. There he was, hind legs
hanging over the passenger side of the console and
front legs hanging over the driver’s side. In the
middle, his stomach was firmly beached on the
emergency brake. His little legs were going in all
Marley & Me 29
directions, clawing at the air. He wiggled and
rocked and swayed, but he was grounded like a
freighter on a sandbar. I reached over and ran my
hand down his back, which only excited him more
and brought on a new flurry of squiggling. His
hind paws desperately sought purchase on the carpeted
hump between the two seats. Slowly, he began
working his hind quarters into the air, his butt
rising up, up, up, tail furiously going, until the law
of gravity finally kicked in. He slalomed headfirst
down the other side of the console, somersaulting
onto the floor at my feet and flipping onto his
back. From there it was a quick, easy scramble up
into my lap.
Man, was he happy—desperately happy. He
quaked with joy as he burrowed his head into my
stomach and nibbled the buttons of my shirt, his
tail slapping the steering wheel like the needle on a
metronome.
I quickly discovered I could affect the tempo of
his wagging by simply touching him. When I had
both hands on the wheel, the beat came at a
steady three thumps per second. Thump. Thump.
Thump. But all I needed to do was press one finger
against the top of his head and the rhythm jumped
from a waltz to a bossa nova. Thump-thumpthump-
thump-thump-thump! Two fingers and it
jumped up to a mambo. Thump-thumpa-thump30
John Grogan
thump-thumpa-thump! And when I cupped my
entire hand over his head and massaged my fingers
into his scalp, the beat exploded into a machinegun,
rapid-fire samba. Thumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthump!
“Wow! You’ve got rhythm!” I told him. “You
really are a reggae dog.”
When we got home, I led him inside and unhooked
his leash. He began sniffing and didn’t stop until
he had sniffed every square inch of the place.
Then he sat back on his haunches and looked up at
me with cocked head as if to say, Great digs, but
where are my brothers and sisters?
The reality of his new life did not fully set in
until bedtime. Before leaving to get him, I had set
up his sleeping quarters in the one-car garage attached
to the side of the house. We never parked
there, using it more as a storage and utility room.
The washer and dryer were out there, along with
our ironing board. The room was dry and comfortable
and had a rear door that led out into the
fenced backyard. And with its concrete floor and
walls, it was virtually indestructible. “Marley,” I
said cheerfully, leading him out there, “this is your
room.”
I had scattered chew toys around, laid newspaMarley
& Me 31
pers down in the middle of the floor, filled a bowl
with water, and made a bed out of a cardboard box
lined with an old bedspread. “And here is where
you’ll be sleeping,” I said, and lowered him into
the box. He was used to such accommodations but
had always shared them with his siblings. Now he
paced the perimeter of the box and looked forlornly
up at me. As a test, I stepped back into the
house and closed the door. I stood and listened. At
first nothing. Then a slight, barely audible whimper.
And then full-fledged crying. It sounded like
someone was in there torturing him.
I opened the door, and as soon as he saw me he
stopped. I reached in and pet him for a couple of
minutes, then left again. Standing on the other
side of the door, I began to count. One, two,
three . . . He made it seven seconds before the
yips and cries began again. We repeated the exercise
several times, all with the same result. I was
tired and decided it was time for him to cry himself
to sleep. I left the garage light on for him,
closed the door, walked to the opposite side of the
house, and crawled into bed. The concrete walls
did little to muffle his pitiful cries. I lay there, trying
to ignore them, figuring any minute now he
would give up and go to sleep. The crying continued.
Even after I wrapped my pillow around my
head, I could still hear it. I thought of him out
32 John Grogan
there alone for the first time in his life, in this
strange environment without a single dog scent to
be had anywhere. His mother was missing in action,
and so were all his siblings. The poor little
thing. How would I like it?
I hung on for another half hour before getting
up and going to him. As soon as he spotted me, his
face brightened and his tail began to beat the side
of the box. It was as if he were saying, Come on,
hop in; there’s plenty of room. Instead, I lifted
the box with him in it and carried it into my bedroom,
where I placed it on the floor tight against
the side of the bed. I lay down on the very edge of
the mattress, my arm dangling into the box.
There, my hand resting on his side, feeling his rib
cage rise and fall with his every breath, we both
drifted off to sleep.
C H A P T E R 4
Mr. Wiggles
?
For the next three days I threw myself with
abandon into our new puppy. I lay on the floor
with him and let him scamper all over me. I wrestled
with him. I used an old hand towel to play
tug-of-war with him—and was surprised at how
strong he already was. He followed me
everywhere—and tried to gnaw on anything he
could get his teeth around. It took him just one
day to discover the best thing about his new home:
toilet paper. He disappeared into the bathroom
and, five seconds later, came racing back out, the
end of the toilet-paper roll clenched in his teeth, a
paper ribbon unrolling behind him as he sprinted
across the house. The place looked like it had been
decorated for Halloween.
Every half hour or so I would lead him into the
backyard to relieve himself. When he had acci34
John Grogan
dents in the house, I scolded him. When he peed
outside, I placed my cheek against his and praised
him in my sweetest voice. And when he pooped
outside, I carried on as though he had just delivered
the winning Florida Lotto ticket.
When Jenny returned from Disney World, she
threw herself into him with the same utter abandon.
It was an amazing thing to behold. As the
days unfolded I saw in my young wife a calm, gentle,
nurturing side I had not known existed. She
held him; she caressed him; she played with him;
she fussed over him. She combed through every
strand of his fur in search of fleas and ticks. She
rose every couple of hours through the night—
night after night—to take him outside for bathroom
breaks. That more than anything was
responsible for him becoming fully housebroken
in just a few short weeks.
Mostly, she fed him.
Following the instructions on the bag, we gave
Marley three large bowls of puppy chow a day. He
wolfed down every morsel in a matter of seconds.
What went in came out, of course, and soon our
backyard was as inviting as a minefield. We didn’t
dare venture out into it without eyes sharply
peeled. If Marley’s appetite was huge, his droppings
were huger still, giant mounds that looked
Marley & Me 35
virtually unchanged from what had earlier gone in
the other end. Was he even digesting this stuff ?
Apparently he was. Marley was growing at a furious
pace. Like one of those amazing jungle vines
that can cover a house in hours, he was expanding
exponentially in all directions. Each day he was a
little longer, a little wider, a little taller, a little
heavier. He was twenty-one pounds when I
brought him home and within weeks was up to
fifty. His cute little puppy head that I so easily cradled
in one hand as I drove him home that first
night had rapidly morphed into something resembling
the shape and heft of a blacksmith’s anvil.
His paws were enormous, his flanks already rippled
with muscle, and his chest almost as broad as
a bulldozer. Just as the books promised, his slip of
a puppy tail was becoming as thick and powerful
as an otter’s.
What a tail it was. Every last object in our house
that was at knee level or below was knocked asunder
by Marley’s wildly wagging weapon. He
cleared coffee tables, scattered magazines,
knocked framed photographs off shelves, sent
beer bottles and wineglasses flying. He even
cracked a pane in the French door. Gradually every
item that was not bolted down migrated to higher
ground safely above the sweep of his swinging
36 John Grogan
mallet. Our friends with children would visit and
marvel, “Your house is already baby-proofed!”
Marley didn’t actually wag his tail. He more
wagged his whole body, starting with the front
shoulders and working backward. He was like the
canine version of a Slinky. We swore there were no
bones inside him, just one big, elastic muscle.
Jenny began calling him Mr. Wiggles.
And at no time did he wiggle more than when
he had something in his mouth. His reaction to
any situation was the same: grab the nearest shoe
or pillow or pencil—really, any item would do—
and run with it. Some little voice in his head
seemed to be whispering to him, “Go ahead! Pick
it up! Drool all over it! Run!”
Some of the objects he grabbed were small
enough to conceal, and this especially pleased
him—he seemed to think he was getting away
with something. But Marley would never have
made it as a poker player. When he had something
to hide, he could not mask his glee. He was always
on the rambunctious side, but then there were
those moments when he would explode into a
manic sort of hyperdrive, as if some invisible
prankster had just goosed him. His body would
quiver, his head would bob from side to side, and
his entire rear end would swing in a sort of spastic
dance. We called it the Marley Mambo.
Marley & Me 37
“All right, what have you got this time?” I’d say,
and as I approached he would begin evasive action,
waggling his way around the room, hips
sashaying, head flailing up and down like a whinnying
filly’s, so overjoyed with his forbidden prize
he could not contain himself. When I would finally
get him cornered and pry open his jaws, I never
came up empty-handed. Always there was something
he had plucked out of the trash or off the
floor or, as he got taller, right off the dining room
table. Paper towels, wadded Kleenex, grocery receipts,
wine corks, paper clips, chess pieces, bottle
caps—it was like a salvage yard in there. One day I
pried open his jaws and peered in to find my paycheck
plastered to the roof of his mouth.
Within weeks, we had a hard time remembering
what life had been like without our new boarder.
Quickly, we fell into a routine. I started each
morning, before the first cup of coffee, by taking
him for a brisk walk down to the water and back.
After breakfast and before my shower, I patrolled
the backyard with a shovel, burying his land mines
in the sand at the back of the lot. Jenny left for
work before nine, and I seldom left the house before
ten, first locking Marley out in the concrete
bunker with a fresh bowl of water, a host of toys,
38 John Grogan
and my cheery directive to “be a good boy, Marley.”
By twelve-thirty, Jenny was home on her
lunch break, when she would give Marley his midday
meal and throw him a ball in the backyard until
he was tuckered out. In the early weeks, she
also made a quick trip home in the middle of the
afternoon to let him out. After dinner most evenings
we walked together with him back down to
the waterfront, where we would stroll along the
Intracoastal as the yachts from Palm Beach idled
by in the glow of the sunset.
Stroll is probably the wrong word. Marley
strolled like a runaway locomotive strolls. He
surged ahead, straining against his leash with
everything he had, choking himself hoarse in the
process. We yanked him back; he yanked us forward.
We tugged; he pulled, coughing like a chain
smoker from the collar strangling him. He veered
left and right, darting to every mailbox and shrub,
sniffing, panting, and peeing without fully stopping,
usually getting more pee on himself than the
intended target. He circled behind us, wrapping
the leash around our ankles before lurching forward
again, nearly tripping us. When someone
approached with another dog, Marley would bolt
at them joyously, rearing up on his hind legs when
he reached the end of his leash, dying to make
Marley & Me 39
friends. “He sure seems to love life,” one dog
owner commented, and that about said it all.
He was still small enough that we could win
these leash tug-of-wars, but with each week the
balance of power was shifting. He was growing
bigger and stronger. It was obvious that before
long he would be more powerful than either of us.
We knew we would need to rein him in and teach
him to heel properly before he dragged us to humiliating
deaths beneath the wheels of a passing
car. Our friends who were veteran dog owners told
us not to rush the obedience regimen. “It’s too
early,” one of them advised. “Enjoy his puppyhood
while you can. It’ll be gone soon enough,
and then you can get serious about training him.”
That is what we did, which is not to say that we
let him totally have his way. We set rules and tried
to enforce them consistently. Beds and furniture
were off-limits. Drinking from the toilet, sniffing
crotches, and chewing chair legs were actionable
offenses, though apparently worth suffering a
scolding for. No became our favorite word. We
worked with him on the basic commands—come,
stay, sit, down—with limited success. Marley was
young and wired, with the attention span of algae
and the volatility of nitroglycerine. He was so excitable,
any interaction at all would send him into
40 John Grogan
a tizzy of bounce-off-the-walls, triple-espresso
exuberance. We wouldn’t realize it until years
later, but he showed early signs of that condition
that would later be coined to describe the behavior
of thousands of hard-to-control, ants-in-theirpants
schoolchildren. Our puppy had a textbook
case of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
Still, for all his juvenile antics, Marley was serving
an important role in our home and our relationship.
Through his very helplessness, he was
showing Jenny she could handle this maternal
nurturing thing. He had been in her care for several
weeks, and she hadn’t killed him yet. Quite to
the contrary, he was thriving. We joked that
maybe we should start withholding food to stunt
his growth and suppress his energy levels.
Jenny’s transformation from coldhearted plant
killer to nurturing dog mom continued to amaze
me. I think she amazed herself a little. She was a
natural. One day Marley began gagging violently.
Before I even fully registered that he was in trouble,
Jenny was on her feet. She swooped in, pried
his jaws open with one hand, and reached deep
into his gullet with the other, pulling out a large,
saliva-coated wad of cellophane. All in a day’s
work. Marley let out one last cough, banged his
tail against the wall, and looked up at her with an
expression that said, Can we do it again?
Marley & Me 41
? ? ?
As we grew more comfortable with the new member
of our family, we became more comfortable
talking about expanding our family in other ways.
Within weeks of bringing Marley home, we decided
to stop using birth control. That’s not to say
we decided to get pregnant, which would have
been way too bold a gesture for two people who
had dedicated their lives to being as indecisive as
possible. Rather, we backed into it, merely deciding
to stop trying not to get pregnant. The logic
was convoluted, we realized, but it somehow made
us both feel better. No pressure. None at all. We
weren’t trying for a baby; we were just going to let
whatever happened happen. Let nature take its
course. Que sera, sera and all that.
Frankly, we were terrified. We had several sets
of friends who had tried for months, years even,
to conceive without luck and who had gradually
taken their pitiful desperation public. At dinner
parties they would talk obsessively about doctor’s
visits, sperm counts, and timed menstrual cycles,
much to the discomfort of everyone else at the
table. I mean, what were you supposed to say? “I
think your sperm counts sound just fine!” It was
almost too painful to bear. We were scared to
death we would end up joining them.
42 John Grogan
Jenny had suffered several severe bouts of endometriosis
before we were married and had undergone
laparoscopic surgery to remove excess
scar tissue from her fallopian tubes, none of which
boded well for her fertility. Even more troubling
was a little secret from our past. In those blindly
passionate early days of our relationship, when
desire had a stranglehold on anything resembling
common sense, we had thrown caution into the
corner with our clothes and had sex with reckless
abandon, using no birth control whatsoever. Not
just once but many times. It was incredibly dumb,
and, looking back on it several years later, we
should have been kissing the ground in gratitude
for miraculously escaping an unwanted pregnancy.
Instead, all either of us could think was, What’s
wrong with us? No normal couple could possibly
have done all that unprotected fornicating
and gotten away with it. We were both convinced
conceiving was going to be no easy task.
So as our friends announced their plans to try to
get pregnant, we remained silent. Jenny was simply
going to stash her birth-control prescription
away in the medicine cabinet and forget about it.
If she ended up pregnant, fantastic. If she didn’t,
well, we weren’t actually trying anyway, now,
were we?
Marley & Me 43
? ? ?
Winter in West Palm Beach is a glorious time of
year, marked by crisp nights and warm, dry, sunny
days. After the insufferably long, torpid summer,
most of it spent in air-conditioning or hopping
from one shade tree to the next in an attempt to
dodge the blistering sun, winter was our time to
celebrate the gentle side of the subtropics. We ate
all our meals on the back porch, squeezed fresh
orange juice from the fruit of the backyard tree
each morning, tended a tiny herb garden and a few
tomato plants along the side of the house, and
picked saucer-sized hibiscus blooms to float in little
bowls of water on the dining room table. At
night we slept beneath open windows, the
gardenia-scented air wafting in over us.
On one of those gorgeous days in late March,
Jenny invited a friend from work to bring her basset
hound, Buddy, over for a dog playdate. Buddy
was a rescued pound dog with the saddest face I
had ever seen. We let the two dogs loose in the
backyard, and off they bounded. Old Buddy
wasn’t quite sure what to make of this hyperenergized
yellow juvenile who raced and streaked and
ran tight circles around him. But he took it in good
humor, and the two of them romped and played to44
John Grogan
gether for more than an hour before they both collapsed
in the shade of the mango tree, exhausted.
A few days later Marley started scratching and
wouldn’t stop. He was clawing so hard at himself,
we were afraid he might draw blood. Jenny
dropped to her knees and began one of her routine
inspections, working her fingers through his
coat, parting his fur as she went to see his skin below.
After just a few seconds, she called out,
“Damn it! Look at this.” I peered over her shoulder
at where she had parted Marley’s fur just in
time to see a small black dot dart back under
cover. We laid him flat on the floor and began going
through every inch of his fur. Marley was
thrilled with the two-on-one attention and panted
happily, his tail thumping the floor. Everywhere
we looked we found them. Fleas! Swarms of
them. They were between his toes and under his
collar and burrowed inside his floppy ears. Even if
they were slow enough to catch, which they were
not, there were simply too many of them to even
begin picking off.
We had heard about Florida’s legendary flea and
tick problems. With no hard freezes, not even any
frosts, the bug populations were never knocked
back, and they flourished in the warm, moist environment.
This was a place where even the millionaires’
mansions along the ocean in Palm Beach had
Marley & Me 45
cockroaches. Jenny was freaked out; her puppy
was crawling with vermin. Of course, we blamed
Buddy without having any solid proof. Jenny had
images of not only the dog being infested but our
entire home, too. She grabbed her car keys and
ran out the door.
A half hour later she was back with a bag filled
with enough chemicals to create our own Superfund
site. There were flea baths and flea powders
and flea sprays and flea foams and flea dips. There
was a pesticide for the lawn, which the guy at the
store told her we had to spray if we were to have
any hope of bringing the little bastards to their
knees. There was a special comb designed to remove
insect eggs.
I reached into the bag and pulled out the receipt.
“Jesus Christ, honey,” I said. “We could
have rented our own crop duster for this much.”
My wife didn’t care. She was back in assassin
mode—this time to protect her loved ones—and
she meant business. She threw herself into the
task with a vengeance. She scrubbed Marley in the
laundry tub, using special soaps. She then mixed
up the dip, which contained the same chemical, I
noted, as the lawn insecticide, and poured it over
him until every inch of him was saturated. As he
was drying in the garage, smelling like a miniature
Dow Chemical plant, Jenny vacuumed furiously—
46 John Grogan
floors, walls, carpets, curtains, upholstery. And
then she sprayed. And while she doused the inside
with flea killer, I doused the outside with it. “You
think we nailed the little buggers?” I asked when
we were finally finished.
“I think we did,” she said.
Our multipronged attack on the flea population of
345 Churchill Road was a roaring success. We
checked Marley daily, peering between his toes,
under his ears, beneath his tail, along his belly, and
everywhere else we could reach. We could find no
sign of a flea anywhere. We checked the carpets,
the couches, the bottoms of the curtains, the
grass—nothing. We had annihilated the enemy.
C H A P T E R 5
The Test Strip
?
Afew weeks later we were lying in bed reading
when Jenny closed her book and said, “It’s
probably nothing.”
“What’s probably nothing,” I said absently, not
looking up from my book.
“My period’s late.”
She had my attention. “Your period? It is?” I
turned to face her.
“That happens sometimes. But it’s been over a
week. And I’ve been feeling weird, too.”
“Weird how?”
“Like I have a low-level stomach flu or something.
I had one sip of wine at dinner the other
night, and I thought I was going to throw up.”
“That’s not like you.”
“Just the thought of alcohol makes me nauseous.”
48 John Grogan
I wasn’t going to mention it, but she also had
been rather cranky lately.
“Do you think—” I began to ask.
“I don’t know. Do you?”
“How am I supposed to know?”
“I almost didn’t say anything,” Jenny said. “Just
in case—you know. I don’t want to jinx us.”
That’s when I realized just how important this
was to her—and to me, too. Somehow parenthood
had snuck up on us; we were ready for a baby. We
lay there side by side for a long while, saying nothing,
looking straight ahead.
“We’re never going to fall asleep,” I finally said.
“The suspense is killing me,” she admitted.
“Come on, get dressed,” I said. “Let’s go to the
drugstore and get a home test kit.”
We threw on shorts and T-shirts and opened the
front door, Marley bounding out ahead of us,
overjoyed at the prospect of a late-night car ride.
He pranced on his hind legs by our tiny Toyota
Tercel, hopping up and down, shaking, flinging
saliva off his jowls, panting, absolutely beside
himself with anticipation of the big moment
when I would open the back door. “Geez, you’d
think he was the father,” I said. When I opened
the door, he leaped into the backseat with such
gusto that he sailed clear to the other side without
touching down, not stopping until he cracked his
Marley & Me 49
head loudly, but apparently with no ill effect,
against the far window.
The pharmacy was open till midnight, and I
waited in the car with Marley while Jenny ran in.
There are some things guys just are not meant to
shop for, and home pregnancy tests come pretty
close to the top of the list. The dog paced in the
backseat, whining, his eyes locked on the front
door of the pharmacy. As was his nature whenever
he was excited, which was nearly every waking
moment, he was panting, salivating heavily.
“Oh for God’s sake, settle down,” I told him.
“What do you think she’s going to do? Sneak out
the back door on us?” He responded by shaking
himself off in a great flurry, showering me in a
spray of dog drool and loose hair. We had become
used to Marley’s car etiquette and always kept an
emergency bath towel on the front seat, which I
used to wipe down myself and the interior of the
car. “Hang tight,” I said. “I’m pretty sure she
plans to return.”
Five minutes later Jenny was back, a small bag
in her hand. As we pulled out of the parking lot,
Marley wedged his shoulders between the bucket
seats of our tiny hatchback, balancing his front
paws on the center console, his nose touching the
rearview mirror. Every turn we made sent him
crashing down, chest first, against the emergency
50 John Grogan
brake. And after each spill, unfazed and happier
than ever, he would teeter back up on his perch.
A few minutes later we were back home in the
bathroom with the $8.99 kit spread out on the side
of the sink. I read the directions aloud. “Okay,” I
said. “It says it’s accurate ninety-nine percent of
the time. First thing you have to do is pee in this
cup.” The next step was to dip a skinny plastic
test strip into the urine and then into a small vial
of a solution that came with the kit. “Wait five
minutes,” I said. “Then we put it in the second
solution for fifteen minutes. If it turns blue,
you’re officially knocked up, baby!”
We timed off the first five minutes. Then Jenny
dropped the strip into the second vial and said, “I
can’t stand here watching it.”
We went out into the living room and made
small talk, pretending we were waiting for something
of no more significance than the teakettle to
boil. “So how about them Dolphins,” I quipped.
But my heart was pounding wildly, and a feeling of
nervous dread was rising from my stomach. If the
test came back positive, whoa, our lives were
about to change forever. If it came back negative,
Jenny would be crushed. It was beginning to dawn
on me that I might be, too. An eternity later, the
timer rang. “Here we go,” I said. “Either way, you
know I love you.”
Marley & Me 51
I went to the bathroom and fished the test strip
out of the vial. No doubt about it, it was blue. As
blue as the deepest ocean. A dark, rich, navyblazer
blue. A blue that could be confused with no
other shade. “Congratulations, honey,” I said.
“Oh my God” is all she could answer, and she
threw herself into my arms.
As we stood there by the sink, arms around each
other, eyes closed, I gradually became aware of a
commotion at our feet. I looked down and there
was Marley, wiggling, head bobbing, tail banging
the linen-closet door so hard I thought he might
dent it. When I reached down to pet him, he
dodged away. Uh-oh. It was the Marley Mambo,
and that could mean just one thing.
“What do you have this time?” I said, and began
chasing him. He loped into the living room,
weaving just out of my reach. When I finally cornered
him and pried open his jaws, at first I saw
nothing. Then far back on his tongue, on the
brink of no return, ready to slip down the hatch, I
spotted something. It was skinny and long and
flat. And as blue as the deepest ocean. I reached in
and pulled out our positive test strip. “Sorry to
disappoint you, pal,” I said, “but this is going in
the scrapbook.”
Jenny and I started laughing and kept laughing
for a long time. We had great fun speculating on
52 John Grogan
what was going through that big blocky head of
his. Hmmm, if I destroy the evidence, maybe
they’ll forget all about this unfortunate episode,
and I won’t have to share my castle with an interloper
after all.
Then Jenny grabbed Marley by the front paws,
lifted him up on his hind legs and danced around
the room with him. “You’re going to be an uncle!”
she sang. Marley responded in his trademark
way—by lunging up and planting a big wet tongue
squarely on her mouth.
The next day Jenny called me at work. Her
voice was bubbling. She had just returned from
the doctor, who had officially confirmed the results
of our home test. “He says all systems are
go,” she said.
The night before, we had counted back on the
calendar, trying to pinpoint the date of conception.
She was worried that she had already been
pregnant when we went on our hysterical fleaeradication
spree a few weeks earlier. Exposing
herself to all those pesticides couldn’t be good,
could it? She raised her concerns with the doctor,
and he told her it was probably not an issue. Just
don’t use them anymore, he advised. He gave her a
prescription for prenatal vitamins and told her
he’d see her back in his office in three weeks for a
sonogram, an electronic-imaging process that
Marley & Me 53
would give us our first glimpse of the tiny fetus
growing inside Jenny’s belly.
“He wants us to make sure we bring a videotape,”
she said, “so we can save our own copy for
posterity.”
On my desk calendar, I made a note of it.

C H A P T E R 6
Matters of the Heart
?
The natives will tell you South Florida has four
seasons. Subtle ones, they admit, but four
distinct seasons nonetheless. Do not believe them.
There are only two—the warm, dry season and
the hot, wet one. It was about the time of this
overnight return to tropical swelter when we
awoke one day to realize our puppy was a puppy
no more. As rapidly as winter had morphed into
summer, it seemed, Marley had morphed into a
gangly adolescent. At five months old, his body
had filled out the baggy wrinkles in its oversized
yellow fur coat. His enormous paws no longer
looked so comically out of proportion. His
needle-sharp baby teeth had given way to imposing
fangs that could destroy a Frisbee—or a
brand-new leather shoe—in a few quick chomps.
The timbre of his bark had deepened to an intim56
John Grogan
idating boom. When he stood on his hind legs,
which he did often, tottering around like a dancing
Russian circus bear, he could rest his front paws on
my shoulders and look me straight in the eye.
The first time the veterinarian saw him, he let
out a soft whistle and said, “You’re going to have a
big boy on your hands.”
And that we did. He had grown into a handsome
specimen, and I felt obliged to point out to
the doubting Miss Jenny that my formal name for
him was not so far off the mark. Grogan’s Majestic
Marley of Churchill, besides residing on
Churchill Road, was the very definition of majestic.
When he stopped chasing his tail, anyway.
Sometimes, after he ran every last ounce of nervous
energy out of himself, he would lie on the
Persian rug in the living room, basking in the sun
slanting through the blinds. His head up, nose
glistening, paws crossed before him, he reminded
us of an Egyptian sphinx.
We were not the only ones to notice the transformation.
We could tell from the wide berth
strangers gave him and the way they recoiled
when he bounded their way that they no longer
viewed him as a harmless puppy. To them he had
grown into something to be feared.
Our front door had a small oblong window at
eye level, four inches wide by eight inches long.
Marley & Me 57
Marley lived for company, and whenever someone
rang the bell, he would streak across the house,
going into a full skid as he approached the foyer,
careening across the wood floors, tossing up throw
rugs as he slid and not stopping until he crashed
into the door with a loud thud. He then would hop
up on his hind legs, yelping wildly, his big head
filling the tiny window to stare straight into the
face of whoever was on the other side. For Marley,
who considered himself the resident Welcome
Wagon, it was a joyous overture. For door-to-door
salespeople, postal carriers, and anyone else who
didn’t know him, though, it was as if Cujo had
just jumped out of the Stephen King novel and
the only thing that stood between them and a merciless
mauling was our wooden door. More than
one stranger, after ringing the doorbell and seeing
Marley’s barking face peering out at them, beat a
quick retreat to the middle of the driveway, where
they stood waiting for one of us to answer.
This, we found, was not necessarily a bad thing.
Ours was what urban planners call a changing
neighborhood. Built in the 1940s and ’50s and initially
populated by snowbirds and retirees, it began
to take on a gritty edge as the original
homeowners died off and were replaced by a motley
group of renters and working-class families.
By the time we moved in, the neighborhood was
58 John Grogan
again in transition, this time being gentrified by
gays, artists, and young professionals drawn to its
location near the water and its funky, Deco-style
architecture.
Our block served as a buffer between hardbitten
South Dixie Highway and the posh estate
homes along the water. Dixie Highway was the
original U.S. 1 that ran along Florida’s eastern
coast and served as the main route to Miami before
the arrival of the interstate. It was five lanes
of sun-baked pavement, two in each direction
with a shared left-turn lane, and it was lined with
a slightly decayed and unseemly assortment of
thrift stores, gas stations, fruit stands, consignment
shops, diners, and mom-and-pop motels
from a bygone era.
On the four corners of South Dixie Highway
and Churchill Road stood a liquor store, a twentyfour-
hour convenience mart, an import shop with
heavy bars on the window, and an open-air coin
laundry where people hung out all night, often
leaving bottles in brown bags behind. Our house
was in the middle of the block, eight doors down
from the action.
The neighborhood seemed safe to us, but there
were telltales of its rough edge. Tools left out in
the yard disappeared, and during a rare cold spell,
someone stole every stick of firewood I had
Marley & Me 59
stacked along the side of the house. One Sunday
we were eating breakfast at our favorite diner, sitting
at the table we always sat at, right in the front
window, when Jenny pointed to a bullet hole in the
plate glass just above our heads and noted dryly,
“That definitely wasn’t there last time we were
here.”
One morning as I was pulling out of our block
to drive to work, I spotted a man lying in the gutter,
his hands and face bloody. I parked and ran up
to him, thinking he had been hit by a car. But
when I squatted down beside him, a strong stench
of alcohol and urine hit me, and when he began to
talk, it was clear he was inebriated. I called an ambulance
and waited with him, but when the crew
arrived he refused treatment. As the paramedics
and I stood watching, he staggered away in the direction
of the liquor store.
And there was the night a man with a slightly
desperate air about him came to my door and told
me he was visiting a house in the next block and
had run out of gas for his car. Could I lend him
five dollars? He’d pay me back first thing in the
morning. Sure you will, pal, I thought. When I
offered to call the police for him instead, he mumbled
a lame excuse and disappeared.
Most unsettling of all was what we learned
about the small house kitty-corner from ours. A
60 John Grogan
murder had taken place there just a few months
before we moved in. And not just a run-of-themill
murder, but a horribly gruesome one involving
an invalid widow and a chain saw. The case
had been all over the news, and before we moved
in we were well familiar with its details—
everything, that is, except the location. And now
here we were living across the street from the
crime scene.
The victim was a retired schoolteacher named
Ruth Ann Nedermier, who had lived in the house
alone and was one of the original settlers of the
neighborhood. After hip-replacement surgery, she
had hired a day nurse to help care for her, which
was a fatal decision. The nurse, police later ascertained,
had been stealing checks out of Mrs. Nedermier’s
checkbook and forging her signature.
The old woman had been frail but mentally
sharp, and she confronted the nurse about the
missing checks and the unexplained charges to her
bank account. The panicked nurse bludgeoned the
poor woman to death, then called her boyfriend,
who arrived with a chain saw and helped her dismember
the body in the bathtub. Together they
packed the body parts in a large trunk, rinsed the
woman’s blood down the drain, and drove away.
For several days, Mrs. Nedermier’s disappearance
remained a mystery, our neighbors later told
Marley & Me 61
us. The mystery was solved when a man called the
police to report a horrible stench coming from his
garage. Officers discovered the trunk and its
ghastly contents. When they asked the homeowner
how it got there, he told them the truth: his
daughter had asked if she could store it there for
safekeeping.
Although the grisly murder of Mrs. Nedermier
was the most-talked-about event in the history of
our block, no one had mentioned a word about it
to us as we prepared to buy the house. Not the real
estate agent, not the owners, not the inspector, not
the surveyor. Our first week in the house, the
neighbors came over with cookies and a casserole
and broke the news to us. As we lay in our bed at
night, it was hard not to think that just a hundred
feet from our bedroom window a defenseless
widow had been sawn into pieces. It was an inside
job, we told ourselves, something that would
never happen to us. Yet we couldn’t walk by the
place or even look out our front window without
thinking about what had happened there.
Somehow, having Marley aboard with us, and
seeing how strangers eyed him so warily, gave us a
sense of peace we might not have had otherwise.
He was a big, loving dope of a dog whose defense
strategy against intruders would surely have been
to lick them to death. But the prowlers and preda62
John Grogan
tors out there didn’t need to know that. To them
he was big, he was powerful, and he was unpredictably
crazy. And that is how we liked it.
Pregnancy suited Jenny well. She began rising at
dawn to exercise and walk Marley. She prepared
wholesome, healthy meals, loaded with fresh vegetables
and fruits. She swore off caffeine and diet
sodas and, of course, all alcohol, not even allowing
me to stir a tablespoon of cooking sherry into
the pot.
We had sworn to keep the pregnancy a secret
until we were confident the fetus was viable and
beyond the risk of miscarriage, but on this front
neither of us did well. We were so excited that we
dribbled out our news to one confidant after another,
swearing each to silence, until our secret
was no longer a secret at all. First we told our parents,
then our siblings, then our closest friends,
then our office mates, then our neighbors. Jenny’s
stomach, at ten weeks, was just starting to round
slightly. It was beginning to seem real. Why not
share our joy with the world? By the time the day
arrived for Jenny’s examination and sonogram, we
might as well have plastered it on a billboard: John
and Jenny are expecting.
I took off work the morning of the doctor’s apMarley
& Me 63
pointment and, as instructed, brought a blank
videotape so I could capture the first grainy images
of our baby. The appointment was to be part
checkup, part informational meeting. We would
be assigned to a nurse-midwife who could answer
all our questions, measure Jenny’s stomach, listen
for the baby’s heartbeat, and, of course, show us
its tiny form inside of her.
We arrived at 9:00 A.M., brimming with anticipation.
The nurse-midwife, a gentle middleaged
woman with a British accent, led us into a
small exam room and immediately asked:
“Would you like to hear your baby’s heartbeat?”
Would we ever, we told her. We listened intently
as she ran a sort of microphone hooked to a
speaker over Jenny’s abdomen. We sat in silence,
smiles frozen on our faces, straining to hear the
tiny heartbeat, but only static came through the
speaker.
The nurse said that was not unusual. “It depends
on how the baby is lying. Sometimes you
can’t hear anything. It might still be a little early.”
She offered to go right to the sonogram. “Let’s
have a look at your baby,” she said breezily.
“Our first glimpse of baby Grogie,” Jenny said,
beaming at me. The nurse-midwife led us into the
sonogram room and had Jenny lie back on a table
with a monitor screen beside it.
64 John Grogan
“I brought a tape,” I said, waving it in front
of her.
“Just hold on to it for now,” the nurse said as she
pulled up Jenny’s shirt and began running an instrument
the size and shape of a hockey puck over
her stomach. We peered at the computer monitor
at a gray mass without definition. “Hmm, this one
doesn’t seem to be picking anything up,” she said
in a completely neutral voice. “We’ll try a vaginal
sonogram. You get much more detail that way.”
She left the room and returned moments later
with another nurse, a tall bleached blonde with a
monogram on her fingernail. Her name was Essie,
and she asked Jenny to remove her panties, then
inserted a latex-covered probe into her vagina.
The nurse was right: the resolution was far superior
to that of the other sonogram. She zoomed in
on what looked like a tiny sac in the middle of the
sea of gray and, with the click of a mouse, magnified
it, then magnified it again. And again. But despite
the great detail, the sac just looked like an
empty, shapeless sock to us. Where were the little
arms and legs the pregnancy books said would be
formed by ten weeks? Where was the tiny head?
Where was the beating heart? Jenny, her neck
craned sideways to see the screen, was still brimming
with anticipation and asked the nurses with a
little nervous laugh, “Is there anything in there?”
Marley & Me 65
I looked up to catch Essie’s face, and I knew the
answer was the one we did not want to hear. Suddenly
I realized why she hadn’t been saying anything
as she kept clicking up the magnification.
She answered Jenny in a controlled voice: “Not
what you’d expect to see at ten weeks.” I put my
hand on Jenny’s knee. We both continued staring
at the blob on the screen, as though we could will
it to life.
“Jenny, I think we have a problem here,” Essie
said. “Let me get Dr. Sherman.”
As we waited in silence, I learned what people
mean when they describe the swarm of locusts
that descends just before they faint. I felt the
blood rushing out of my head and heard buzzing
in my ears. If I don’t sit down, I thought, I’m going
to collapse. How embarrassing would that be?
My strong wife bearing the news stoically as her
husband lay unconscious on the floor, the nurses
trying to revive him with smelling salts. I half sat
on the edge of the examining bench, holding
Jenny’s hand with one of mine and stroking her
neck with the other. Tears welled in her eyes, but
she didn’t cry.
Dr. Sherman, a tall, distinguished-looking man
with a gruff but affable demeanor, confirmed that
the fetus was dead. “We’d be able to see a heartbeat,
no question,” he said. He gently told us what
66 John Grogan
we already knew from the books we had been
reading. That one in six pregnancies ends in miscarriage.
That this was nature’s way of sorting out
the weak, the retarded, the grossly deformed. Apparently
remembering Jenny’s worry about the
flea sprays, he told us it was nothing we did or did
not do. He placed his hand on Jenny’s cheek and
leaned in close as if to kiss her. “I’m sorry,” he
said. “You can try again in a couple of months.”
We both just sat there in silence. The blank
videotape sitting on the bench beside us suddenly
seemed like an incredible embarrassment, a sharp
reminder of our blind, naive optimism. I wanted
to throw it away. I wanted to hide it. I asked the
doctor: “Where do we go from here?”
“We have to remove the placenta,” he said.
“Years ago, you wouldn’t have even known you
had miscarried yet, and you would have waited
until you started hemorrhaging.”
He gave us the option of waiting over the weekend
and returning on Monday for the procedure,
which was the same as an abortion, with the fetus
and placenta being vacuumed from the uterus.
But Jenny wanted to get it behind her, and so did
I. “The sooner the better,” she said.
“Okay then,” Dr. Sherman said. He gave her
something to force her to dilate and was gone.
Down the hall we could hear him enter another
Marley & Me 67
exam room and boisterously greet an expectant
mother with jolly banter.
Alone in the room, Jenny and I fell heavily into
each other’s arms and stayed that way until a light
knock came at the door. It was an older woman we
had never seen before. She carried a sheaf of papers.
“I’m sorry, sweetie,” she said to Jenny. “I’m
so sorry.” And then she showed her where to sign
the waiver acknowledging the risks of uterine
suction.
When Dr. Sherman returned he was all business.
He injected Jenny first with Valium and then Demerol,
and the procedure was quick if not painless.
He was finished before the drugs seemed to
fully kick in. When it was over, she lay nearly unconscious
as the sedatives took their full effect.
“Just make sure she doesn’t stop breathing,” the
doctor said, and he walked out of the room. I
couldn’t believe it. Wasn’t it his job to make sure
she didn’t stop breathing? The waiver she signed
never said “Patient could stop breathing at any
time due to overdose of barbiturates.” I did as I
was told, talking to her in a loud voice, rubbing
her arm, lightly slapping her cheek, saying things
like, “Hey, Jenny! What’s my name?” She was
dead to the world.
68 John Grogan
After several minutes Essie stuck her head in to
check on us. She caught one glimpse of Jenny’s
gray face and wheeled out of the room and back in
again a moment later with a wet washcloth and
smelling salts, which she held under Jenny’s nose
for what seemed forever before Jenny began to stir,
and then only briefly. I kept talking to her in a
loud voice, telling her to breathe deeply so I could
feel it on my hand. Her skin was ashen; I found
her pulse: sixty beats per minute. I nervously
dabbed the wet cloth across her forehead, cheeks,
and neck. Eventually, she came around, though
she was still extremely groggy. “You had me worried,”
I said. She just looked blankly at me as if
trying to ascertain why I might be worried. Then
she drifted off again.
A half hour later the nurse helped dress her, and
I walked her out of the office with these orders:
for the next two weeks, no baths, no swimming,
no douches, no tampons, no sex.
In the car, Jenny maintained a detached silence,
pressing herself against the passenger door, gazing
out the window. Her eyes were red but she would
not cry. I searched for comforting words without
success. Really, what could be said? We had lost
our baby. Yes, I could tell her we could try again. I
could tell her that many couples go through the
same thing. But she didn’t want to hear it, and I
Marley & Me 69
didn’t want to say it. Someday we would be able to
see it all in perspective. But not today.
I took the scenic route home, winding along
Flagler Drive, which hugs West Palm Beach’s waterfront
from the north end of town, where the
doctor’s office was, to the south end, where we
lived. The sun glinted off the water; the palm
trees swayed gently beneath the cloudless blue sky.
It was a day meant for joy, not for us. We drove
home in silence.
When we arrived at the house, I helped Jenny
inside and onto the couch, then went into the
garage where Marley, as always, awaited our return
with breathless anticipation. As soon as he
saw me, he dove for his oversized rawhide bone
and proudly paraded it around the room, his body
wagging, tail whacking the washing machine like a
mallet on a kettledrum. He begged me to try to
snatch it from him.
“Not today, pal,” I said, and let him out the
back door into the yard. He took a long pee
against the loquat tree and then came barreling
back inside, took a deep drink from his bowl, water
sloshing everywhere, and careened down the
hall, searching for Jenny. It took me just a few seconds
to lock the back door, mop up the water he
had spilled, and follow him into the living room.
When I turned the corner, I stopped short. I
70 John Grogan
would have bet a week’s pay that what I was looking
at couldn’t possibly happen. Our rambunctious,
wired dog stood with his shoulders between
Jenny’s knees, his big, blocky head resting quietly
in her lap. His tail hung flat between his legs, the
first time I could remember it not wagging whenever
he was touching one of us. His eyes were
turned up at her, and he whimpered softly. She
stroked his head a few times and then, with no
warning, buried her face in the thick fur of his
neck and began sobbing. Hard, unrestrained,
from-the-gut sobbing.
They stayed like that for a long time, Marley
statue-still, Jenny clutching him to her like an
oversized doll. I stood off to the side feeling like a
voyeur intruding on this private moment, not
quite knowing what to do with myself. And then,
without lifting her face, she raised one arm up toward
me, and I joined her on the couch and
wrapped my arms around her. There the three of
us stayed, locked in our embrace of shared grief.
C H A P T E R 7
Master and Beast
?
The next morning, a Saturday, I awoke at dawn
to find Jenny lying on her side with her back
to me, weeping softly. Marley was awake, too, his
chin resting on the mattress, once again commiserating
with his mistress. I got up and made coffee,
squeezed fresh orange juice, brought in the
newspaper, made toast. When Jenny came out in
her robe several minutes later, her eyes were dry
and she gave me a brave smile as if to say she was
okay now.
After breakfast, we decided to get out of the
house and walk Marley down to the water for a
swim. A large concrete breakwater and mounds of
boulders lined the shore in our neighborhood,
making the water inaccessible. But if you walked
a half dozen blocks to the south, the breakwater
curved inland, exposing a small white sand beach
72 John Grogan
littered with driftwood—a perfect place for a dog
to frolic. When we reached the little beach, I
wagged a stick in front of Marley’s face and unleashed
him. He stared at the stick as a starving
man would stare at a loaf of bread, his eyes never
leaving the prize. “Go get it!” I shouted, and
hurled the stick as far out into the water as I
could. He cleared the concrete wall in one spectacular
leap, galloped down the beach and out into
the shallow water, sending up plumes of spray
around him. This is what Labrador retrievers
were born to do. It was in their genes and in their
job description.
No one is certain where Labrador retrievers
originated, but this much is known for sure: it was
not in Labrador. These muscular, short-haired
water dogs first surfaced in the 1600s a few hundred
miles to the south of Labrador, in Newfoundland.
There, early diarists observed, the
local fishermen took the dogs to sea with them in
their dories, putting them to good use hauling in
lines and nets and fetching fish that came off the
hooks. The dogs’ dense, oily coats made them impervious
to the icy waters, and their swimming
prowess, boundless energy, and ability to cradle
fish gently in their jaws without damaging the
flesh made them ideal work dogs for the tough
North Atlantic conditions.
Marley & Me 73
How the dogs came to be in Newfoundland is
anyone’s guess. They were not indigenous to the
island, and there is no evidence that early Eskimos
who first settled the area brought dogs with them.
The best theory is that early ancestors of the retrievers
were brought to Newfoundland by fishermen
from Europe and Britain, many of whom
jumped ship and settled on the coast, establishing
communities. From there, what is now known as
the Labrador retriever may have evolved through
unintentional, willy-nilly cross-breeding. It likely
shares common ancestry with the larger and shaggier
Newfoundland breed.
However they came to be, the amazing retrievers
soon were pressed into duty by island hunters
to fetch game birds and waterfowl. In 1662, a native
of St. John’s, Newfoundland, named W. E.
Cormack journeyed on foot across the island and
noted the abundance of the local water dogs,
which he found to be “admirably trained as retrievers
in fowling and . . . otherwise useful.”
The British gentry eventually took notice and by
the early nineteenth century were importing the
dogs to England for use by sportsmen in pursuit of
pheasant, grouse, and partridges.
According to the Labrador Retriever Club, a
national hobbyist group formed in 1931 and dedicated
to preserving the integrity of the breed, the
74 John Grogan
name Labrador retriever came about quite inadvertently
sometime in the 1830s when the apparently
geographically challenged third earl of
Malmesbury wrote to the sixth duke of Buccleuch
to gush about his fine line of sporting retrievers.
“We always call mine Labrador dogs,” he wrote.
From that point forward, the name stuck. The
good earl noted that he went to great lengths to
keep “the breed as pure as I could from the first.”
But others were less religious about genetics,
freely crossing Labradors with other retrievers in
hopes that their excellent qualities would transfer.
The Labrador genes proved indomitable, and the
Labrador retriever line remained distinct, winning
recognition by the Kennel Club of England as a
breed all its own on July 7, 1903.
B. W. Ziessow, an enthusiast and longtime
breeder, wrote for the Labrador Retriever Club:
“The American sportsmen adopted the breed
from England and subsequently developed and
trained the dog to fulfill the hunting needs of this
country. Today, as in the past, the Labrador will
eagerly enter ice cold water in Minnesota to retrieve
a shot bird; he’ll work all day hunting doves
in the heat of the Southwest—his only reward is a
pat for a job well done.”
This was Marley’s proud heritage, and it appeared
he had inherited at least half of the inMarley
& Me 75
stinct. He was a master at pursuing his prey. It was
the concept of returning it that he did not seem to
quite grasp. His general attitude seemed to be, If
you want the stick back that bad, YOU jump in
the water for it.
He came charging back up onto the beach with
his prize in his teeth. “Bring it here!” I yelled,
slapping my hands together. “C’mon, boy, give it
to me!” He pranced over, his whole body wagging
with excitement, and promptly shook water and
sand all over me. Then to my surprise he dropped
the stick at my feet. Wow, I thought. How’s that
for service? I looked back at Jenny, sitting on a
bench beneath an Australian pine, and gave her a
thumbs-up. But when I reached down to pick up
the stick, Marley was ready. He dove in, grabbed
it, and raced across the beach in crazy figureeights.
He swerved back, nearly colliding with me,
taunting me to chase him. I made a few lunges at
him, but it was clear he had both speed and agility
on his side. “You’re supposed to be a Labrador retriever!”
I shouted. “Not a Labrador evader!”
But what I had that my dog didn’t was an
evolved brain that at least slightly exceeded my
brawn. I grabbed a second stick and made a
tremendous fuss over it. I held it over my head and
tossed it from hand to hand. I swung it from side
to side. I could see Marley’s resolve softening.
76 John Grogan
Suddenly, the stick in his mouth, just moments
earlier the most prized possession he could imagine
on earth, had lost its cachet. My stick drew
him in like a temptress. He crept closer and closer
until he was just inches in front of me. “Oh, a
sucker is born every day, isn’t he, Marley?” I cackled,
rubbing the stick across his snout and watching
as he went cross-eyed trying to keep it in his
sights.
I could see the little cogs going in his head as he
tried to figure out how he could grab the new stick
without relinquishing the old one. His upper lip
quivered as he tested the concept of making a
quick two-for-one grab. Soon I had my free hand
firmly around the end of the stick in his mouth. I
tugged and he tugged back, growling. I pressed
the second stick against his nostrils. “You know
you want it,” I whispered. And did he ever; the
temptation was too much to bear. I could feel his
grip loosening. And then he made his move. He
opened his jaws to try to grab the second stick
without losing the first. In a heartbeat, I whipped
both sticks high above my head. He leaped in the
air, barking and spinning, obviously at a loss as to
how such a carefully laid battle strategy could have
gone so badly awry. “This is why I am the master
and you are the beast,” I told him. And with that
he shook more water and sand in my face.
Marley & Me 77
I threw one of the sticks out into the water and
he raced after it, yelping madly as he went. He returned
a new, wiser opponent. This time he was
cautious and refused to come anywhere near me.
He stood about ten yards away, stick in mouth, eying
the new object of his desire, which just happened
to be the old object of his desire, his first
stick, now perched high above my head. I could see
the cogs moving again. He was thinking, This
time I’ll just wait right here until he throws it,
and then he’ll have no sticks and I’ll have both
sticks. “You think I’m really dumb, don’t you,
dog,” I said. I heaved back and with a great, exaggerated
groan hurled the stick with all my might.
Sure enough, Marley roared into the water with his
stick still locked in his teeth. The only thing was, I
hadn’t let go of mine. Do you think Marley figured
that out? He swam halfway to Palm Beach before
catching on that the stick was still in my hand.
“You’re cruel!” Jenny yelled down from her
bench, and I looked back to see she was laughing.
When Marley finally got back onshore, he
plopped down in the sand, exhausted but not
about to give up his stick. I showed him mine, reminding
him how far superior it was to his, and
ordered, “Drop it!” I cocked my arm back as if to
throw, and the dummy bolted back to his feet and
began heading for the water again. “Drop it!” I
78 John Grogan
repeated when he returned. It took several tries,
but finally he did just that. And the instant his
stick hit the sand, I launched mine into the air for
him. We did it over and over, and each time he
seemed to understand the concept a little more
clearly. Slowly the lesson was sinking into that
thick skull of his. If he returned his stick to me, I
would throw a new one for him. “It’s like an office
gift exchange,” I told him. “You’ve got to give to
get.” He leaped up and smashed his sandy mouth
against mine, which I took to be an acknowledgment
of a lesson learned.
As Jenny and I walked home, the tuckered Marley
for once did not strain against his leash. I
beamed with pride at what we had accomplished.
For weeks Jenny and I had been working to teach
him some basic social skills and manners, but
progress had been painfully slow. It was like we
were living with a wild stallion—and trying to
teach it to sip tea from fine porcelain. Some days I
felt like Anne Sullivan to Marley’s Helen Keller. I
thought back to Saint Shaun and how quickly I, a
mere ten-year-old boy, had been able to teach him
all he needed to know to be a great dog. I wondered
what I was doing wrong this time.
But our little fetching exercise offered a glimmer
of hope. “You know,” I said to Jenny, “I really
think he’s starting to get it.”
Marley & Me 79
She looked down at him, plodding along beside
us. He was soaking wet and coated in sand, spittle
foaming on his lips, his hard-won stick still
clenched in his jaws. “I wouldn’t be so sure of
that,” she said.
The next morning I again awoke before dawn to
the sounds of Jenny softly sobbing beside me.
“Hey,” I said, and wrapped my arms around her.
She nestled her face against my chest, and I could
feel her tears soaking through my T-shirt.
“I’m fine,” she said. “Really. I’m just—you
know.”
I did know. I was trying to be the brave soldier,
but I felt it, too, the dull sense of loss and failure.
It was odd. Less than forty-eight hours earlier we
had been bubbling with anticipation over our new
baby. And now it was as if there had never been a
pregnancy at all. As if the whole episode was just a
dream from which we were having trouble waking.
Later that day I took Marley with me in the car
to pick up a few groceries and some things Jenny
needed at the pharmacy. On the way back, I
stopped at a florist shop and bought a giant bouquet
of spring flowers arranged in a vase, hoping
they would cheer her up. I strapped them into the
seat belt in the backseat beside Marley so they
80 John Grogan
wouldn’t spill. As we passed the pet shop, I made
the split-second decision that Marley deserved a
pick-me-up, too. After all, he had done a better
job than I at comforting the inconsolable woman
in our lives. “Be a good boy!” I said. “I’ll be right
back.” I ran into the store just long enough to buy
an oversized rawhide chew for him.
When we got home a few minutes later, Jenny
came out to meet us, and Marley tumbled out of
the car to greet her. “We have a little surprise for
you,” I said. But when I reached in the backseat
for the flowers, the surprise was on me. The bouquet
was a mix of white daisies, yellow mums, assorted
lilies, and bright red carnations. Now,
however, the carnations were nowhere to be
found. I looked more closely and found the decapitated
stems that minutes earlier had held blossoms.
Nothing else in the bouquet was disturbed.
I glared at Marley and he was dancing around like
he was auditioning for Soul Train. “Get over
here!” I yelled, and when I finally caught him and
pried open his jaws, I found the incontrovertible
evidence of his guilt. Deep in his cavernous
mouth, tucked up in one jowl like a wad of chewing
tobacco, was a single red carnation. The others
presumably were already down the hatch. I was
ready to murder him.
I looked up at Jenny and tears were streaming
Marley & Me 81
down her cheeks. But this time, they were tears of
laughter. She could not have been more amused
had I flown in a mariachi band for a private serenade.
There was nothing left for me to do but
laugh, too.
“That dog,” I muttered.
“I’ve never been crazy about carnations anyway,”
she said.
Marley was so thrilled to see everyone happy
and laughing again that he jumped up on his hind
legs and did a break dance for us.
The next morning, I awoke to bright sun dappling
through the branches of the Brazilian pepper tree
and across the bed. I glanced at the clock; it was
nearly eight. I looked over at my wife sleeping
peacefully, her chest rising and falling with long,
slow breaths. I kissed her hair, draped an arm
across her waist, and closed my eyes again.

C H A P T E R 8
A Battle of Wills
?
When Marley was not quite six months old,
we signed him up for obedience classes.
God knew he needed it. Despite his stick-fetching
breakthrough on the beach that day, he was proving
himself a challenging student, dense, wild,
constantly distracted, a victim of his boundless
nervous energy. We were beginning to figure out
that he wasn’t like other dogs. As my father put it
shortly after Marley attempted marital relations
with his knee, “That dog’s got a screw loose.” We
needed professional help.
Our veterinarian told us about a local dogtraining
club that offered basic obedience classes
on Tuesday nights in the parking lot behind the
armory. The teachers were unpaid volunteers
from the club, serious amateurs who presumably
had already taken their own dogs to the heights of
84 John Grogan
advanced behavior modification. The course ran
eight lessons and cost fifty dollars, which we
thought was a bargain, especially considering that
Marley could destroy fifty dollars’ worth of shoes
in thirty seconds. And the club all but guaranteed
we’d be marching home after graduation with the
next great Lassie. At registration we met the
woman who would be teaching our class. She was
a stern, no-nonsense dog trainer who subscribed
to the theory that there are no incorrigible dogs,
just weak-willed and hapless owners.
The first lesson seemed to prove her point. Before
we were fully out of the car, Marley spotted
the other dogs gathering with their owners across
the tarmac. A party! He leaped over us and out
of the car and was off in a tear, his leash dragging
behind him. He darted from one dog to the next,
sniffing private parts, dribbling pee, and flinging
huge wads of spit through the air. For Marley it
was a festival of smells—so many genitals, so little
time—and he was seizing the moment, being careful
to stay just ahead of me as I raced after him.
Each time I was nearly upon him, he would scoot a
few feet farther away. I finally got within striking
distance and took a giant leap, landing hard with
both feet on his leash. This brought him to a jolting
halt so abrupt that for a moment I thought I
might have broken his neck. He jerked backward,
Marley & Me 85
landed on his back, flipped around, and gazed up
at me with the serene expression of a heroin addict
who had just gotten his fix.
Meanwhile, the instructor was staring at us with
a look that could not have been more withering
had I decided to throw off my clothes and dance
naked right there on the blacktop. “Take your
place, please,” she said curtly, and when she saw
both Jenny and me tugging Marley into position,
she added: “You are going to have to decide which
of you is going to be trainer.” I started to explain
that we both wanted to participate so each of us
could work with him at home, but she cut me off.
“A dog,” she said definitively, “can only answer to
one master.” I began to protest, but she silenced
me with that glare of hers—I suppose the same
glare she used to intimidate her dogs into
submission—and I slinked off to the sidelines
with my tail between my legs, leaving Master
Jenny in command.
This was probably a mistake. Marley was already
considerably stronger than Jenny and knew
it. Miss Dominatrix was only a few sentences into
her introduction on the importance of establishing
dominance over our pets when Marley decided
the standard poodle on the opposite side of the
class deserved a closer look. He lunged off with
Jenny in tow.
86 John Grogan
All the other dogs were sitting placidly beside
their masters at tidy ten-foot intervals, awaiting
further instructions. Jenny was fighting valiantly
to plant her feet and bring Marley to a halt, but he
lumbered on unimpeded, tugging her across the
parking lot in pursuit of hot-poodle butt-sniffing
action. My wife looked amazingly like a waterskier
being towed behind a powerboat. Everyone
stared. Some snickered. I covered my eyes.
Marley wasn’t one for formal introductions. He
crashed into the poodle and immediately
crammed his nose between her legs. I imagined it
was the canine male’s way of asking, “So, do you
come here often?”
After Marley had given the poodle a full gynecological
examination, Jenny was able to drag him
back into place. Miss Dominatrix announced
calmly, “That, class, is an example of a dog that
has been allowed to think he is the alpha male of
his pack. Right now, he’s in charge.” As if to drive
home the point, Marley attacked his tail, spinning
wildly, his jaws snapping at thin air, and in the
process he wrapped the leash around Jenny’s ankles
until she was fully immobilized. I winced for
her, and gave thanks that it wasn’t me out there.
The instructor began running the class through
the sit and down commands. Jenny would firmly
order, “Sit!” And Marley would jump up on her
Marley & Me 87
and put his paws on her shoulders. She would
press his butt to the ground, and he would roll
over for a belly rub. She would try to tug him into
place, and he would grab the leash in his teeth,
shaking his head from side to side as if he were
wrestling a python. It was too painful to watch. At
one point I opened my eyes to see Jenny lying on
the pavement facedown and Marley standing over
her, panting happily. Later she told me she was
trying to show him the down command.
As class ended and Jenny and Marley rejoined
me, Miss Dominatrix intercepted us. “You really
need to get control over that animal,” she said
with a sneer. Well, thank you for that valuable
advice. And to think we had signed up simply to
provide comic relief for the rest of the class.
Neither of us breathed a word. We just retreated
to the car in humiliation and drove home in silence,
the only sound Marley’s loud panting as he
tried to come down from the high of his first
structured classroom experience. Finally I said,
“One thing you can say for him, he sure loves
school.”
The next week Marley and I were back, this time
without Jenny. When I suggested to her that I was
probably the closest thing to an alpha dog we were
88 John Grogan
going to find in our home, she gladly relinquished
her brief title as master and commander and
vowed to never show her face in public again. Before
leaving the house, I flipped Marley over on his
back, towered over him, and growled in my most
intimidating voice, “I’m the boss! You’re not the
boss! I’m the boss! Got it, Alpha Dog?” He
thumped his tail on the floor and tried to gnaw on
my wrists.
The night’s lesson was walking on heel, one I
was especially keen on mastering. I was tired of
fighting Marley every step of every walk. He already
had yanked Jenny off her feet once when he
took off after a cat, leaving her with bloody knees.
It was time he learned to trot placidly along by our
sides. I wrestled him to our spot on the tarmac,
yanking him back from every dog we passed along
the way. Miss Dominatrix handed each of us a
short length of chain with a steel ring welded to
each end. These, she told us, were choker collars
and would be our secret weapons for teaching our
dogs to heel effortlessly at our sides. The choker
chain was brilliantly simple in design. When the
dog behaved and walked beside its master as it was
supposed to, with slack in its lead, the chain hung
limply around its neck. But if the dog lunged forward
or veered off course, the chain tightened like
a noose, choking the errant hound into gasping
Marley & Me 89
submission. It didn’t take long, our instructor
promised, before dogs learned to submit or die of
asphyxia. Wickedly delicious, I thought.
I started to slip the choker chain over Marley’s
head, but he saw it coming and grabbed it in his
teeth. I pried his jaw open to pull it out and tried
again. He grabbed it again. All the other dogs had
their chains on; everyone was waiting. I grabbed
his muzzle with one hand and with the other tried
to lasso the chain over his snout. He was pulling
backward, trying to get his mouth open so he
could attack the mysterious coiled silver snake
again. I finally forced the chain over his head, and
he dropped to the ground, thrashing and snapping,
his paws in the air, his head jerking from side
to side, until he managed to get the chain in his
teeth again. I looked up at the teacher. “He likes
it,” I said.
As instructed, I got Marley to his feet and got
the chain out of his mouth. Then, as instructed, I
pushed his butt down into a sit position and stood
beside him, my left leg brushing his right shoulder.
On the count of three, I was to say, “Marley,
heel!” and step off with my left—never my
right—foot. If he began to wander off course, a
series of minor corrections—sharp little tugs on
the leash—would bring him back into line. “Class,
on the count of three,” Miss Dominatrix called
90 John Grogan
out. Marley was quivering with excitement. The
shiny foreign object around his neck had him in a
complete lather. “One . . . two . . . three.”
“Marley, heel!” I commanded. As soon as I took
my first step, he took off like a fighter jet from an
aircraft carrier. I yanked back hard on the leash
and he made an awful coughing gasp as the chain
tightened around his airway. He sprang back for
an instant, but as soon as the chain loosened, the
momentary choking was behind him, ancient history
in that tiny compartment of his brain dedicated
to life lessons learned. He lunged forward
again. I yanked back and he gasped once more. We
continued like this the entire length of the parking
lot, Marley yanking ahead, me yanking back, each
time with increasing vigor. He was coughing and
panting; I was grunting and sweating.
“Rein that dog in!” Miss Dominatrix yelled. I
tried to with all my might, but the lesson wasn’t
sinking in, and I considered that Marley just
might strangle himself before he figured it out.
Meanwhile, the other dogs were prancing along at
their owners’ sides, responding to minor corrections
just as Miss Dominatrix said they would.
“For God’s sake, Marley,” I whispered. “Our family
pride is on the line.”
The instructor had the class queue up and try it
again. Once again, Marley lurched his way maniMarley
& Me 91
cally across the blacktop, eyes bulging, strangling
himself as he went. At the other end, Miss Dominatrix
held Marley and me up to the class as an example
of how not to heel a dog. “Here,” she said
impatiently, holding out her hand. “Let me show
you.” I handed the leash to her, and she efficiently
tugged Marley around into position, pulling up on
the choker as she ordered him to sit. Sure enough,
he sank back on his haunches, eagerly looking up
at her. Damn.
With a smart yank of the lead, Miss Dominatrix
set off with him. But almost instantly he barreled
ahead as if he were pulling the lead sled in the Iditarod.
The instructor corrected hard, pulling him
off balance; he stumbled, wheezed, then lunged
forward again. It looked like he was going to pull
her arm out of its socket. I should have been embarrassed,
but I felt an odd sort of satisfaction that
often comes with vindication. She wasn’t having
any more success than I was. My classmates snickered,
and I beamed with perverse pride. See, my
dog is awful for everyone, not just me!
Now that I wasn’t the one being made the fool, I
had to admit, the scene was pretty hilarious. The
two of them, having reached the end of the parking
lot, turned and came lurching back toward us
in fits and starts, Miss Dominatrix scowling with
what clearly was apoplectic rage, Marley joyous
92 John Grogan
beyond words. She yanked furiously at the leash,
and Marley, frothing at the mouth, yanked back
harder still, clearly enjoying this excellent new
tug-of-war game his teacher had called on him to
demonstrate. When he caught sight of me, he hit
the gas. With a near-supernatural burst of adrenaline,
he made a dash for me, forcing Miss Dominatrix
to break into a sprint to keep from being
pulled off her feet. Marley didn’t stop until he
slammed into me with his usual joie de vivre. Miss
Dominatrix shot me a look that told me I had
crossed some invisible line and there would be no
crossing back. Marley had made a mockery of
everything she preached about dogs and discipline;
he had publicly humiliated her. She handed
the leash back to me and, turning to the class as if
this unfortunate little episode had never occurred,
said, “Okay, class, on the count of three . . .”
When the lesson was over, she asked if I could
stay after for a minute. I waited with Marley as she
patiently fielded questions from other students in
the class. When the last one had left, she turned to
me and, in a newly conciliatory voice, said, “I
think your dog is still a little young for structured
obedience training.”
“He’s a handful, isn’t he?” I said, feeling a new
camaraderie with her now that we’d shared the
same humiliating experience.
Marley & Me 93
“He’s simply not ready for this,” she said. “He
has some growing up to do.”
It was beginning to dawn on me what she was
getting at. “Are you trying to tell me—”
“He’s a distraction to the other dogs.”
“—that you’re—”
“He’s just too excitable.”
“—kicking us out of class?”
“You can always bring him back in another six
or eight months.”
“So you’re kicking us out?”
“I’ll happily give you a full refund.”
“You’re kicking us out.”
“Yes,” she finally said. “I’m kicking you out.”
Marley, as if on cue, lifted his leg and let loose a
raging stream of urine, missing his beloved instructor’s
foot by mere centimeters.
Sometimes a man needs to get angry to get serious.
Miss Dominatrix had made me angry. I
owned a beautiful, purebred Labrador retriever, a
proud member of the breed famous for its ability
to guide the blind, rescue disaster victims, assist
hunters, and pluck fish from roiling ocean swells,
all with calm intelligence. How dare she write
him off after just two lessons? So he was a bit on
the spirited side; he was filled with nothing but
94 John Grogan
good intentions. I was going to prove to that insufferable
stuffed shirt that Grogan’s Majestic
Marley of Churchill was no quitter. We’d see her
at Westminster.
First thing the next morning, I had Marley out
in the backyard with me. “Nobody kicks the Grogan
boys out of obedience school,” I told him.
“Untrainable? We’ll see who’s untrainable.
Right?” He bounced up and down. “Can we do it,
Marley?” He wiggled. “I can’t hear you! Can we
do it?” He yelped. “That’s better. Now let’s get to
work.”
We started with the sit command, which I had
been practicing with him since he was a small
puppy and which he already was quite good at. I
towered over him, gave him my best alpha-dog
scowl, and in a firm but calm voice ordered him to
sit. He sat. I praised. We repeated the exercise
several times. Next we moved to the down command,
another one I had been practicing with
him. He stared intently into my eyes, neck straining
forward, anticipating my directive. I slowly
raised my hand in the air and held it there as he
waited for the word. With a sharp downward motion,
I snapped my fingers, pointed at the ground
and said, “Down!” Marley collapsed in a heap,
hitting the ground with a thud. He could not possibly
have gone down with more gusto had a morMarley
& Me 95
tar shell just exploded behind him. Jenny, sitting
on the porch with her coffee, noticed it, too, and
yelled out, “Incoming!”
After several rounds of hit-the-deck, I decided
to move up to the next challenge: come on command.
This was a tough one for Marley. The coming
part was not the problem; it was waiting in
place until we summoned him that he could not
get. Our attention-deficit dog was so anxious to be
plastered against us he could not sit still while we
walked away from him.
I put him in the sit position facing me and fixed
my eyes on his. As we stared at each other, I raised
my palm, holding it out in front of me like a crossing
guard. “Stay,” I said, and took a step backward.
He froze, staring anxiously, waiting for the
slightest sign that he could join me. On my fourth
step backward, he could take it no longer and
broke free, racing up and tumbling against me. I
admonished him and tried it again. And again and
again. Each time he allowed me to get a little farther
away before charging. Eventually, I stood fifty
feet across the yard, my palm out toward him. I
waited. He sat, locked in position, his entire body
quaking with anticipation. I could see the nervous
energy building in him; he was like a volcano
ready to blow. But he held fast. I counted to ten.
He did not budge. His eyes froze on me; his mus96
John Grogan
cles bulged. Okay, enough torture, I thought. I
dropped my hand and yelled, “Marley, come!”
As he catapulted forward, I squatted and
clapped my hands to encourage him. I thought he
might go racing willy-nilly across the yard, but
he made a beeline for me. Perfect! I thought.
“C’mon, boy!” I coached. “C’mon!” And come he
did. He was barreling right at me. “Slow it down,
boy,” I said. He just kept coming. “Slow down!”
He had this vacant, crazed look on his face, and in
the instant before impact I realized the pilot had
left the wheelhouse. It was a one-dog stampede. I
had time for one final command. “STOP!” I
screamed. Blam! He plowed into me without
breaking stride and I pitched backward, slamming
hard to the ground. When I opened my eyes a few
seconds later, he was straddling me with all four
paws, lying on my chest and desperately licking
my face. How did I do, boss? Technically speaking,
he had followed orders exactly. After all, I had
failed to mention anything about stopping once he
got to me.
“Mission accomplished,” I said with a groan.
Jenny peered out the kitchen window at us and
shouted, “I’m off to work. When you two are
done making out, don’t forget to close the windows.
It’s supposed to rain this afternoon.” I gave
Marley & Me 97
Linebacker Dog a snack, then showered and
headed off to work myself.
When I arrived home that night, Jenny was waiting
for me at the front door, and I could tell she
was upset. “Go look in the garage,” she said.
I opened the door into the garage and the first
thing I spotted was Marley, lying on his carpet,
looking dejected. In that instant snapshot image, I
could see that his snout and front paws were not
right. They were dark brown, not their usual light
yellow, caked in dried blood. Then my focus
zoomed out and I sucked in my breath. The
garage—our indestructible bunker—was a shambles.
Throw rugs were shredded, paint was clawed
off the concrete walls, and the ironing board was
tipped over, its fabric cover hanging in ribbons.
Worst of all, the doorway in which I stood looked
like it had been attacked with a chipper-shredder.
Bits of wood were sprayed in a ten-foot semicircle
around the door, which was gouged halfway
through to the other side. The bottom three feet
of the doorjamb were missing entirely and
nowhere to be found. Blood streaked the walls
from where Marley had shredded his paws and
muzzle. “Damn,” I said, more in awe than anger.
98 John Grogan
My mind flashed to poor Mrs. Nedermier and the
chainsaw murder across the street. I felt like I was
standing in the middle of a crime scene.
Jenny’s voice came from behind me. “When I
came home for lunch, everything was fine,” she
said. “But I could tell it was getting ready to rain.”
After she was back at work, an intense storm
moved through, bringing with it sheets of rain,
dazzling flashes of lightning, and thunder so powerful
you could almost feel it thump against your
chest.
When she arrived home a couple of hours later,
Marley, standing amid the carnage of his desperate
escape attempt, was in a complete, panicstricken
lather. He was so pathetic she couldn’t
bring herself to yell at him. Besides, the incident
was over; he would have no idea what he was being
punished for. Yet she was so heartsick about the
wanton attack on our new house, the house we
had worked so hard on, that she could not bear to
deal with it or him. “Wait till your father gets
home!” she had threatened, and closed the door
on him.
Over dinner, we tried to put what we were now
calling “the wilding” in perspective. All we could
figure was that, alone and terrified as the storm
descended on the neighborhood, Marley decided
his best chance at survival was to begin digging his
Marley & Me 99
way into the house. He was probably listening to
some ancient denning instinct handed down from
his ancestor, the wolf. And he pursued his goal
with a zealous efficiency I wouldn’t have thought
possible without the aid of heavy machinery.
When the dishes were done, Jenny and I went
out into the garage where Marley, back to his old
self, grabbed a chew toy and bounced around us,
looking for a little tug-of-war action. I held him
still while Jenny sponged the blood off his fur.
Then he watched us, tail wagging, as we cleaned
up his handiwork. We threw out the rugs and
ironing-board cover, swept up the shredded remains
of our door, mopped his blood off the
walls, and made a list of materials we would need
from the hardware store to repair the damage—
the first of countless such repairs I would end up
making over the course of his life. Marley seemed
positively ebullient to have us out there, lending a
hand with his remodeling efforts. “You don’t have
to look so happy about it,” I scowled, and brought
him inside for the night.

C H A P T E R 9
The Stuff Males Are Made Of
?
Every dog needs a good veterinarian, a trained
professional who can keep it healthy and
strong and immunized against disease. Every new
dog owner needs one, too, mostly for the advice
and reassurance and free counsel veterinarians
find themselves spending inordinate amounts of
their time dispensing. We had a few false starts
finding a keeper. One was so elusive we only ever
saw his high-school-aged helper; another was so
old I was convinced he could no longer tell a Chihuahua
from a cat. A third clearly was catering to
Palm Beach heiresses and their palm-sized accessory
dogs. Then we stumbled upon the doctor of
our dreams. His name was Jay Butan—Dr. Jay to
all who knew him—and he was young, smart, hip,
and extraordinarily kind. Dr. Jay understood dogs
like the best mechanics understand cars, intu102
John Grogan
itively. He clearly adored animals yet maintained a
healthy sensibility about their role in the human
world. In those early months, we kept him on
speed dial and consulted him about the most inane
concerns. When Marley began to develop rough
scaly patches on his elbows, I feared he was developing
some rare and, for all we knew, contagious
skin ailment. Relax, Dr. Jay told me, those were
just calluses from lying on the floor. One day Marley
yawned wide and I spotted an odd purple discoloration
on the back of his tongue. Oh my God,
I thought. He has cancer. Kaposi’s sarcoma of
the mouth. Relax, Dr. Jay advised, it was just a
birthmark.
Now, on this afternoon, Jenny and I stood in an
exam room with him, discussing Marley’s deepening
neurosis over thunderstorms. We had hoped
the chipper-shredder incident in the garage was
an isolated aberration, but it turned out to be just
the beginning of what would become a lifelong
pattern of phobic, irrational behavior. Despite
Labs’ reputation as excellent gun dogs, we had
ended up with one who was mortally terrified of
anything louder than a popping champagne cork.
Firecrackers, backfiring engines, and gunshots all
terrified him. Thunder was a house of horrors all
its own. Even the hint of a storm would throw
Marley into a meltdown. If we were home, he
Marley & Me 103
would press against us, shaking and drooling uncontrollably,
his eyes darting nervously, ears
folded back, tail tucked between his legs. When he
was alone, he turned destructive, gouging away at
whatever stood between him and perceived safety.
One day Jenny arrived home as clouds gathered to
find a wild-eyed Marley standing on top of the
washing machine, dancing a desperate jig, his nails
clicking on the enamel top. How he got up there
and why he felt the urge in the first place, we never
determined. People could be certifiably nuts, and
as best as we could figure, so could dogs.
Dr. Jay pressed a vial of small yellow pills into
my hand and said, “Don’t hesitate to use these.”
They were sedatives that would, as he put it, “take
the edge off Marley’s anxiety.” The hope, he said,
was that, aided by the calming effects of the drug,
Marley would be able to more rationally cope with
storms and eventually realize they were nothing
but a lot of harmless noise. Thunder anxiety was
not unusual in dogs, he told us, especially in
Florida, where huge boomers rolled across the
peninsula nearly every afternoon during the torpid
summer months. Marley nosed the vial in my
hands, apparently eager to get started on a life of
drug dependency.
Dr. Jay scruffed Marley’s neck and began working
his lips as though he had something important
104 John Grogan
to say but wasn’t quite sure how to say it. “And,”
he said, pausing, “you probably want to start
thinking seriously about having him neutered.”
“Neutered?” I repeated. “You mean, as in . . .”
I looked down at the enormous set of testicles—
comically huge orbs—swinging between Marley’s
hind legs.
Dr. Jay gazed down at them, too, and nodded. I
must have winced, maybe even grabbed myself,
because he quickly added: “It’s painless, really,
and he’ll be a lot more comfortable.” Dr. Jay knew
all about the challenges Marley presented. He was
our sounding board on all things Marley and knew
about the disastrous obedience training, the
numbskull antics, the destructiveness, the hyperactivity.
And lately Marley, who was seven months
old, had begun humping anything that moved, including
our dinner guests. “It’ll just remove all
that nervous sexual energy and make him a happier,
calmer dog,” he said. He promised it
wouldn’t dampen Marley’s sunny exuberance.
“God, I don’t know,” I said. “It just seems
so . . . so final.”
Jenny, on the other hand, was having no such
compunctions. “Let’s snip those suckers off !”
she said.
“But what about siring a litter?” I asked. “What
Marley & Me 105
about carrying on his bloodline?” All those lucrative
stud fees flashed before my eyes.
Again Dr. Jay seemed to be choosing his words
carefully. “I think you need to be realistic about
that,” he said. “Marley’s a great family pet, but
I’m not sure he’s got the credentials he would
need to be in demand for stud.” He was being as
diplomatic as possible, but the expression on his
face gave him away. It almost screamed out, Good
God, man! For the sake of future generations,
we must contain this genetic mistake at all
costs!
I told him we would think about it, and with our
new supply of mood-altering drugs in hand, we
headed home.
It was at this same time, as we debated slicing
away Marley’s manhood, that Jenny was placing
unprecedented demands on mine. Dr. Sherman
had cleared her to try to get pregnant again. She
accepted the challenge with the singlemindedness
of an Olympic athlete. The days of
simply putting away the birth control pills and letting
whatever might happen happen were behind
us. In the insemination wars, Jenny was going on
the offensive. For that, she needed me, a key ally
106 John Grogan
who controlled the flow of ammunition. Like
most males, I had spent every waking moment
from the age of fifteen trying to convince the opposite
sex that I was a worthy mating partner. Finally,
I had found someone who agreed. I should
have been thrilled. For the first time in my life, a
woman wanted me more than I wanted her. This
was guy heaven. No more begging, no more groveling.
Like the best stud dogs, I was at last in demand.
I should have been ecstatic. But suddenly it
all just seemed like work, and stressful work at
that. It was not a rollicking good romp that Jenny
craved from me; it was a baby. And that meant I
had a job to perform. This was serious business.
That most joyous of acts overnight became a clinical
drill involving basal-temperature checks,
menstrual calendars, and ovulation charts. I felt
like I was in service to the queen.
It was all about as arousing as a tax audit. Jenny
was used to me being game to go at the slightest
hint of an invitation, and she assumed the old
rules still applied. I would be, let’s say, fixing the
garbage disposal and she would walk in with her
calendar in hand and say, “I had my last period on
the seventeenth, which means”—and she would
pause to count ahead from that date—“that we
need to do it—NOW!”
The Grogan men have never handled pressure
Marley & Me 107
well, and I was no exception. It was only a matter
of time before I suffered the ultimate male humiliation:
performance failure. And once that happened,
the game was over. My confidence was
shot, my nerve gone. If it happened once, I knew
it could happen again. Failure evolved into a selffulfilling
prophecy. The more I worried about performing
my husbandly duty, the less I was able to
relax and do what had always come naturally. I
quashed all signs of physical affection lest I put
ideas in Jenny’s head. I began to live in mortal fear
that my wife would, God forbid, ask me to rip her
clothes off and have my way with her. I began
thinking that perhaps a life of celibacy in a remote
monastery wouldn’t be such a bad future after all.
Jenny was not about to give up so easily. She was
the hunter; I was the prey. One morning when I
was working in my newspaper’s West Palm Beach
bureau, just ten minutes from home, Jenny called
from work. Did I want to meet her at home for
lunch? You mean alone? Without a chaperone?
“Or we could meet at a restaurant somewhere,”
I countered. A very crowded restaurant. Preferably
with several of our coworkers along. And
both mothers-in-law.
“Oh, c’mon,” she said. “It’ll be fun.” Then her
voice lowered to a whisper and she added, “Today’s
a good day. I . . . think . . . I’m . . . ovulat108
John Grogan
ing.” A wave of dread washed over me. Oh God,
no. Not the O word. The pressure was on. It was
time to perform or perish. To, quite literally, rise
or fall. Please don’t make me, I wanted to plead
into the phone. Instead I said as coolly as I could,
“Sure. Does twelve-thirty work?”
When I opened the front door, Marley, as always,
was there to greet me, but Jenny was nowhere to
be found. I called out to her. “In the bathroom,”
she answered. “Out in a sec.” I sorted through the
mail, killing time, a general sense of doom hovering
over me, the way I imagined it hovered over
people waiting for their biopsy results. “Hey
there, sailor,” a voice behind me said, and when I
turned around, Jenny was standing there in a little
silky two-piece thing. Her flat stomach peeked out
from below the top, which hung precariously from
her shoulders by two impossibly thin straps. Her
legs had never looked longer. “How do I look?”
she said, holding her hands out at her sides. She
looked incredible, that’s how she looked. When it
comes to sleepwear, Jenny is squarely in the baggy
T-shirt camp, and I could tell she felt silly in this
seductive getup. But it was having the intended
effect.
She scampered into the bedroom with me in
Marley & Me 109
pursuit. Soon we were on top of the sheets in each
other’s arms. I closed my eyes and could feel that
old lost friend of mine stirring. The magic was returning.
You can do this, John. I tried to conjure
up the most impure thoughts I could. This was
going to work! My fingers fumbled for those
flimsy shoulder straps. Roll with it, John. No
pressure. I could feel her breath now, hot and
moist on my face. And heavy. Hot, moist, heavy
breath. Mmmm, sexy.
But wait. What was that smell? Something on
her breath. Something at once familiar and foreign,
not exactly unpleasant but not quite enticing,
either. I knew that smell, but I couldn’t place
it. I hesitated. What are you doing, you idiot?
Forget the smell. Focus, man. Focus! But that
smell—I could not get it out of my head. You’re
getting distracted, John. Don’t get distracted.
What was it? Stay the course! My curiosity was
getting the better of me. Let it go, guy. Let it go!
I began sniffing the air. A food; yes, that was it.
But what food? Not crackers. Not chips. Not tuna
fish. I almost had it. It was . . . Milk-Bones?
Milk-Bones! That was it! She had Milk-Bone
breath. But why? I wondered—and I actually
heard a little voice ask the question in my head—
Why has Jenny been eating Milk-Bones? And
besides, I could feel her lips on my neck . . . How
110 John Grogan
could she be kissing my neck and breathing in my
face all at once? It didn’t make any—
Oh . . . my . . . God.
I opened my eyes. There, inches from my face,
filling my entire frame of vision, loomed Marley’s
huge head. His chin rested on the mattress, and he
was panting up a storm, drool soaking into the
sheets. His eyes were half closed—and he looked
entirely too in love. “Bad dog!” I shrieked, recoiling
across the bed. “No! No! Go to bed!” I frantically
ordered. “Go to bed! Go lie down!” But it
was too late. The magic was gone. The monastery
was back.
At ease, soldier.
The next morning I made an appointment to take
Marley in to have his balls cut off. I figured if I
wasn’t going to have sex for the rest of my life, he
wasn’t either. Dr. Jay said we could drop Marley
off before we went to work and pick him up on our
way home. A week later, that’s just what we did.
As Jenny and I got ready, Marley caromed happily
off the walls, sensing an impending outing.
For Marley, any trip was a good trip; it didn’t
matter where we were going or for how long. Take
out the trash? No problem! Walk to the corner for
a gallon of milk? Count me in! I began to feel
Marley & Me 111
pangs of guilt. The poor guy had no idea what lay
in store for him. He trusted us to do the right
thing, and here we were secretly plotting to emasculate
him. Did betrayal get any more treacherous
than this?
“Come here,” I said, and wrestled him to the
floor where I gave him a vigorous belly scratch. “It
won’t be so bad. You’ll see. Sex is highly overrated.”
Not even I, still rebounding from my bad
run of luck the last couple of weeks, believed
that. Who was I fooling? Sex was great. Sex was
incredible. The poor dog was going to miss out on
life’s single greatest pleasure. The poor bastard. I
felt horrible.
And I felt even worse when I whistled for him
and he bounded out the door and into the car with
utter blind faith that I would not steer him wrong.
He was revved up and ready to go on whatever excellent
adventure I saw fit. Jenny drove and I sat in
the passenger seat. As was his habit, Marley balanced
his front paws on the center console, his
nose touching the rearview mirror. Every time
Jenny touched the brakes, he went crashing into
the windshield, but Marley didn’t care. He was
riding shotgun with his two best friends. Did life
get any better than this?
I cracked my window, and Marley began listing
to starboard, leaning against me, trying to catch a
112 John Grogan
whiff of the outdoor smells. Soon he had
squirmed his way fully onto my lap and pressed
his nose so firmly into the narrow crack of the
window that he snorted each time he tried to inhale.
Oh, why not? I thought. This was his last
ride as a fully equipped member of the male gender;
the least I could do was give him a little fresh
air. I opened the window wide enough for him to
stick his snout out. He was enjoying the sensation
so much, I opened it farther, and soon his entire
head was out the window. His ears flapped behind
him in the wind, and his tongue hung out like he
was drunk on the ether of the city. God, was he
happy.
As we drove down Dixie Highway, I told Jenny
how bad I felt about what we were about to put him
through. She was beginning to say something no
doubt totally dismissive of my qualms when I noticed,
more with curiosity than alarm, that Marley
had hooked both of his front paws over the edge of
the half-open window. And now his neck and upper
shoulders were hanging out of the car, too. He
just needed a pair of goggles and a silk scarf to
look like one of those World War I flying aces.
“John, he’s making me nervous,” Jenny said.
“He’s fine,” I answered. “He just wants a little
fresh—”
At that instant he slid his front legs out the winMarley
& Me 113
dow until his armpits were resting on the edge of
the glass.
“John, grab him! Grab him!”
Before I could do anything, Marley was off my
lap and scrambling out the window of our moving
car. His butt was up in the air, his hind legs clawing
for a foothold. He was making his break. As
his body slithered past me, I lunged for him and
managed to grab the end of his tail with my left
hand. Jenny was braking hard in heavy traffic.
Marley dangled fully outside the moving car, suspended
upside down by his tail, which I had by the
most tenuous of grips. My body was twisted
around in a position that didn’t allow me to get my
other hand on him. Marley was frantically trotting
along with his front paws on the pavement.
Jenny got the car stopped in the outside lane
with cars lining up behind us, horns blaring.
“Now what?” I yelled. I was stuck. I couldn’t pull
him back in the window. I couldn’t open the door.
I couldn’t get my other arm out. And I didn’t dare
let go of him or he would surely dash in the path
of one of the angry drivers swerving around us. I
held on for dear life, my face, as it were, scrunched
against the glass just inches from his giant flapping
scrotum.
Jenny put the flashers on and ran around to my
side, where she grabbed him and held him by the
114 John Grogan
collar until I could get out and help her wrestle
him back into the car. Our little drama had unfolded
directly in front of a gas station, and as
Jenny got the car back into gear I looked over to
see that all the mechanics had come out to take in
the show. I thought they were going to wet themselves,
they were laughing so hard. “Thanks,
guys!” I called out. “Glad we could brighten your
morning.”
When we got to the clinic, I walked Marley in
on a tight leash just in case he tried any more
smart moves. My guilt was gone, my resolve hardened.
“You’re not getting out of this one, Eunuch
Boy,” I told him. He was huffing and puffing,
straining against his leash to sniff all the other animal
smells. In the waiting area he was able to terrorize
a couple of cats and tip over a stand filled
with pamphlets. I turned him over to Dr. Jay’s assistant
and said, “Give him the works.”
That night when I picked him up, Marley was a
changed dog. He was sore from the surgery and
moved gingerly. His eyes were bloodshot and
droopy from the anesthesia, and he was still
groggy. And where those magnificent crown jewels
of his had swung so proudly, there was . . .
nothing. Just a small, shriveled flap of skin. The
irrepressible Marley bloodline had officially and
forever come to an end.
C H A P T E R 1 0
The Luck of the Irish
?
Our lives increasingly were being defined by
work. Work at the newspapers. Work on the
house. Work around the yard. Work trying to get
pregnant. And, nearly a full-time vocation in itself,
work raising Marley. In many ways, he was
like a child, requiring the time and attention a
child requires, and we were getting a taste of the
responsibility that lay ahead of us if we ever did
have a family. But only to a degree. Even as clueless
as we were about parenting, we were pretty
sure we couldn’t lock the kids in the garage with a
bowl of water when we went out for the day.
We hadn’t even reached our second wedding anniversary
and already we were feeling the grind of
responsible, grown-up, married life. We needed to
get away. We needed a vacation, just the two of us,
far from the obligations of our daily lives. I sur116
John Grogan
prised Jenny one evening with two tickets to Ireland.
We would be gone for three weeks. There
would be no itineraries, no guided tours, no mustsee
destinations. Only a rental car, a road map, and
a guide to bed-and-breakfast inns along the way.
Just having the tickets in hand lifted a yoke from
our shoulders.
First we had a few duties to dole out, and at the
top of the list was Marley. We quickly ruled out a
boarding kennel. He was too young, too wired, too
rambunctious to be cooped up in a pen twentythree
hours a day. As Dr. Jay had predicted, neutering
had not diminished Marley’s exuberance
one bit. It did not affect his energy level or loony
behavior, either. Except for the fact that he no
longer showed an interest in mounting inanimate
objects, he was the same crazed beast. He was way
too wild—and too unpredictably destructive when
panic set in—to pawn off at a friend’s house. Or
even at an enemy’s house, for that matter. What
we needed was a live-in dog-sitter. Obviously, not
just anyone would do, especially given the challenges
Marley presented. We needed someone
who was responsible, trustworthy, very patient,
and strong enough to reel in seventy pounds of
runaway Labrador retriever.
We made a list of every friend, neighbor, and
coworker we could think of, then one by one
Marley & Me 117
crossed off names. Total party boy. Scratch. Too
absentminded. Scratch. Averse to dog drool.
Scratch. Too mousy to control a dachshund let
alone a Lab. Scratch. Allergic. Scratch. Unwilling
to pick up dog droppings. Scratch. Eventually,
we were left with just one name. Kathy
worked in my office and was single and unattached.
She grew up in the rural Midwest, loved
animals, and longed to someday trade in her small
apartment for a house with a yard. She was athletic
and liked to walk. True, she was shy and a little
on the meek side, which could make it hard for
her to impose her will on alpha Marley, but otherwise
she would be perfect. Best of all, she said yes.
The list of instructions I prepared for her
couldn’t have been more painstakingly detailed
were we leaving a critically ill infant in her care.
The Marley Memo ran six full pages single-spaced
and read in part:
FEEDING: Marley eats three times a day, one
two-cup measure at each meal. The measuring
cup is inside the bag. Please feed him when
you get up in the morning and when you get
home from work. The neighbors will come in
to feed him mid-afternoon. This totals six
cups of food a day, but if he’s acting famished
please give him an extra cup or so. As you’re
118 John Grogan
aware, all that food has to go somewhere. See
POOP PATROL below.
VITAMINS: Each morning, we give Marley
one Pet Tab vitamin. The best way to give it
to him is to simply drop it on the floor and
pretend he’s not supposed to have it. If he
thinks it’s forbidden, he will wolf it down. If
for some reason that doesn’t work, you can try
disguising it in a snack.
WATER: In hot weather, it’s important to
keep plenty of fresh water on hand. We
change the water next to his food bowl once a
day and top it off if it’s running low. A word
of caution: Marley likes to submerge his snout
in the water bowl and play submarine. This
makes quite a mess. Also his jowls hold a
surprising amount of water, which runs out as
he walks away from the bowl. If you let him,
he’ll wipe his mouth on your clothes and the
couches. One last thing: He usually shakes
after taking a big drink, and his saliva will fly
onto walls, lampshades, etc. We try to wipe
this up before it dries, at which time it
becomes almost impossible to remove.
FLEAS AND TICKS: If you notice these on
him, you can spray him with the flea and tick
sprays we have left. We’ve also left an
insecticide that you can spray on the rugs,
Marley & Me 119
etc., if you think a problem is starting. Fleas
are tiny and fast, and hard to catch, but they
seldom bite humans, we’ve found, so I
wouldn’t be too concerned. Ticks are larger
and slow and we do occasionally see these on
him. If you spot one on him and have the
stomach for it, just pick it off and either crush
it in a tissue (you may need to use your
fingernails; they’re amazingly tough) or wash
it down the sink or toilet (the best option if
the tick is engorged with blood). You’ve
probably read about ticks spreading Lyme
disease to humans and all the long-term
health problems that can cause, but several
vets have assured us that there is very little
danger of contracting Lyme disease here in
Florida. Just to make sure, wash your hands
well after removing a tick. The best way to
pick a tick off Marley is to give him a toy to
hold in his mouth to keep him occupied, and
then pinch his skin together with one hand
while you use your fingernails of the other
hand as pincers to pull the tick off. Speaking
of which, if he gets too smelly, and you’re
feeling brave, you can give him a bath in the
kiddie pool we have in the backyard (for just
that purpose), but wear a bathing suit. You’ll
get wet!
120 John Grogan
EARS: Marley tends to get a lot of wax
buildup in his ears, which if left untreated can
lead to infections. Once or twice while we’re
gone, please use cotton balls and the blue earcleaning
solution to clean as much gunk out of
his ears as you can. It’s pretty nasty stuff so
make sure you’re wearing old clothes.
WALKS: Without his morning walk, Marley
tends to get into mischief in the garage. For
your own sanity, you may also want to give
him a quick jaunt before bed, but that’s
optional. You will want to use the choker
chain to walk him, but never leave it on him
when he’s unattended. He could strangle
himself, and knowing Marley he probably
would.
BASIC COMMANDS: Walking him is much
easier if you can get him to heel. Always
begin with him in a sitting position at your
left, then give the command “Marley, heel!”
and step off on your left foot. If he tries to
lunge ahead, give him a sharp jerk on the
leash. That usually works for us. (He’s been
to obedience school!) If he’s off the leash, he
usually is pretty good about coming to you
with the command “Marley, come!” Note: It’s
best if you’re standing and not crouched
down when you call him.
Marley & Me 121
THUNDERSTORMS: Marley tends to get a
little freaked-out during storms or even light
showers. We keep his sedatives (the yellow
pills) in the cupboard with the vitamins. One
pill thirty minutes before the storm arrives
(you’ll be a weather forecaster before you
know it!) should do the trick. Getting Marley
to swallow pills is a bit of an art form. He
won’t eat them like he does his vitamins, even
if you drop them on the floor and pretend he
shouldn’t have them. The best technique is to
straddle him and pry his jaws open with one
hand. With the other, you push the pill as far
down his throat as you can get it. It needs to
be past the point of no return or he will
cough it back up. Then stroke his throat until
he swallows it. Obviously, you’ll want to wash
up afterward.
POOP PATROL: I have a shovel back under
the mango tree that I use for picking up
Marley’s messes. Feel free to clean up after
him as much or as little as you like, depending
on how much you plan to walk around the
backyard. Watch your step!
OFF-LIMITS: We do NOT allow Marley to:
? Get up on any piece of furniture.
? Chew on furniture, shoes, pillows, etc.
122 John Grogan
? Drink out of the toilet. (Best to keep lid
down at all times, though beware: He’s
figured out how to flip it up with his nose.)
? Dig in the yard or uproot plants and
flowers. He usually does this when he feels
he’s not getting enough attention.
? Go in any trash can. (You may have to keep
it on top of the counter.)
? Jump on people, sniff crotches, or indulge
in any other socially unacceptable behavior.
We’ve especially been trying to cure him of
arm chewing, which, as you can imagine,
not a lot of people appreciate. He still has a
way to go. Feel free to give him a swat on
the rump and a stern “No!”
? Beg at the table.
? Push against the front screen door or the
porch screens. (You’ll see several have
already been replaced.)
Thanks again for doing all this for us, Kathy.
This is a giant favor. I’m not quite sure how
we could have managed otherwise. Hope you
and Marley become good pals and you are as
entertained by him as we are.
I brought the instructions in to Jenny and asked
if there was anything I had forgotten. She took
Marley & Me 123
several minutes to read them and then looked up
and said, “What are you thinking? You can’t show
her this.” She was waving them at me. “You show
her this and you can forget about Ireland. She’s
the only person we could find willing to do this. If
she reads this, that’s it. She’ll start running and
won’t stop until she hits Key West.” Just in case I
had missed it the first time around, she repeated:
“What on earth were you thinking?”
“So you think it’s too much?” I asked.
But I’ve always believed in full disclosure, and
show it to her I did. Kathy did flinch noticeably a
few times, especially as we went over tick-removal
techniques, but she kept any misgivings to herself.
Looking daunted and just a little green, but far too
kind to renege on a promise, she held fast. “Have a
great trip,” she said. “We’ll be fine.”
Ireland was everything we dreamed it would be.
Beautiful, bucolic, lazy. The weather was gloriously
clear and sunny most days, leading the locals
to fret darkly about the possibility of drought. As
we had promised ourselves, we kept no schedules
and set no itineraries. We simply wandered,
bumping our way along the coast, stopping to
stroll or shop or hike or quaff Guinness or simply
gaze out at the ocean. We stopped the car to talk to
124 John Grogan
farmers bringing in their hay and to photograph
ourselves with sheep standing in the road. If we
saw an interesting lane, we turned down it. It was
impossible to get lost because we had no place we
needed to be. All of our duties and obligations
back home were just distant memories.
As evening approached each day, we would begin
looking for a place to spend the night. Invariably,
these were rooms in private homes run by sweet
Irish widows who doted on us, served us tea, turned
down our sheets, and always seemed to ask us the
same question, “So, would you two be planning to
start a family soon?” And then they would leave us
in our room, flashing back knowing, oddly suggestive
smiles as they closed the door behind them.
Jenny and I became convinced there was a national
law in Ireland that required all guest beds to
face a large, wall-mounted likeness of either the
pope or the Virgin Mary. Some places provided
both. One even included an oversized set of rosary
beads that dangled from the headboard. The Irish
Celibate Traveler Law also dictated that all guest
beds be extremely creaky, sounding a rousing
alarm every time one of its occupants so much as
rolled over.
It all conspired to create a setting that was about
as conducive to amorous relations as a convent. We
were in someone else’s home—someone else’s
Marley & Me 125
very Catholic home—with thin walls and a loud
bed and statues of saints and virgins, and a nosy
hostess who, for all we knew, was hovering on the
other side of the door. It was the last place you
would think to initiate sex. Which, of course,
made me crave my wife in new and powerful ways.
We would turn off the lights and crawl into bed,
the springs groaning under our weight, and immediately
I would slip my hand beneath Jenny’s
top and onto her stomach.
“No way!” she would whisper.
“Why not?” I would whisper back.
“Are you nuts? Mrs. O’Flaherty is right on the
other side of that wall.”
“So what?”
“We can’t!”
“Sure we can.”
“She’ll hear everything.”
“We’ll be quiet.”
“Oh, right!”
“Promise. We’ll barely move.”
“Well, go put a T-shirt or something over the
pope first,” she would finally say, relenting. “I’m
not doing anything with him staring at us.”
Suddenly, sex seemed so . . . so . . . illicit. It
was like I was in high school again, sneaking
around under my mother’s suspicious gaze. To
risk sex in these surroundings was to risk shame126
John Grogan
ful humiliation at the communal breakfast table
the next morning. It was to risk Mrs. O’Flaherty’s
raised eyebrow as she served up eggs and fried
tomatoes, asking with a leering grin, “So, was the
bed comfortable for you?”
Ireland was a coast-to-coast No Sex Zone. And
that was all the invitation I needed. We spent the
trip bopping like bunnies.
Still, Jenny couldn’t stop fretting about her big
baby back home. Every few days she would feed a
fistful of coins into a pay phone and call home for
a progress report from Kathy. I would stand outside
the booth and listen to Jenny’s end of the
conversation.
“He did? . . . Seriously? . . . Right into traffic?
. . . You weren’t hurt, were you? . . . Thank
God. . . . I would have screamed, too. . . . What?
Your shoes? . . . Oh no! And your purse? . . .
We’ll certainly pay for repairs. . . . Nothing left
at all? . . . Of course, we insist on replacing
them. . . . And he what? . . . Wet cement, you
say? What’s the chance of that happening?”
And so it would go. Each call was a litany of
transgressions, one worse than the next, many
of which surprised even us, hardened survivors
of the puppy wars. Marley was the incorrigible
student and Kathy the hapless substitute teacher.
He was having a field day.
Marley & Me 127
When we arrived home, Marley raced outside to
greet us. Kathy stood in the doorway, looking
tired and strained. She had the faraway gaze of a
shell-shocked soldier after a particularly unrelenting
battle. Her bag was packed and sitting on the
front porch, ready to go. She held her car key in
her hand as if she could not wait to escape. We
gave her gifts, thanked her profusely, and told her
not to worry about the ripped-out screens and
other damage. She excused herself politely and
was gone.
As best as we could figure, Kathy had been unable
to exert any authority at all over Marley, and
even less control. With each victory, he grew bolder.
He forgot all about heeling, dragging her behind
him wherever he wished to go. He refused to come
to her. He grabbed whatever suited him—shoes,
purses, pillows—and would not let go. He stole
food off her plate. He rifled through the garbage.
He even tried taking over her bed. He had decided
he was in charge while the parents were away, and
he was not going to let some mild-mannered roommate
pull rank and put the kibosh on his fun.
“Poor Kathy,” Jenny said. “She looked kind of
broken, don’t you think?”
“Shattered is more like it.”
“We probably shouldn’t ask her to dog-sit for us
again.”
128 John Grogan
“No,” I answered. “That probably wouldn’t be
a good idea.”
Turning to Marley, I said, “The honeymoon’s
over, Chief. Starting tomorrow, you’re back in
training.”
The next morning Jenny and I both started back
to work. But first I slipped the choker chain
around Marley’s neck and took him for a walk. He
immediately lunged forward, not even pretending
to try to heel. “A little rusty, are we?” I asked, and
heaved with all my might on his leash, knocking
him off his paws. He righted himself, coughed,
and looked up at me with a wounded expression as
if to say, You don’t have to get rough about it.
Kathy didn’t mind me pulling.
“Get used to it,” I said, and placed him in a sit
position. I adjusted the choke chain so it rode high
on his neck, where experience had taught me it
had the most effect. “Okay, let’s try this again,” I
said. He looked at me with cool skepticism.
“Marley, heel!” I ordered, and stepped briskly
off on my left foot with his leash so short my left
hand was actually gripping the end of his choke
chain. He lurched and I tugged sharply, tightening
the stranglehold without mercy. “Taking advantage
of a poor woman like that,” I mumbled. “You
Marley & Me 129
ought to be ashamed of yourself.” By the end of
the walk, my grip on the leash so tight that my
knuckles had turned white, I finally managed to
convince him I wasn’t fooling around. This was no
game but rather a real-life lesson in actions and
consequences. If he wanted to lurch, I would
choke him. Every time, without exception. If he
wanted to cooperate and walk by my side, I would
loosen my grip and he would barely feel the chain
around his neck. Lurch, choke; heel, breathe. It
was simple enough for even Marley to grasp. Over
and over and over again we repeated the sequence
as we marched up and down the bike path. Lurch,
choke; heel, breathe. Slowly it was dawning on
him that I was the master and he was the pet, and
that was the way it was going to stay. As we turned
in to the driveway, my recalcitrant dog trotted
along beside me, not perfectly but respectably. For
the first time in his life he was actually heeling, or
at least attempting a close proximity of it. I would
take it as a victory. “Oh, yes,” I sang joyously.
“The boss is back.”
Several days later Jenny called me at the office.
She had just been to see Dr. Sherman. “Luck of
the Irish,” she said. “Here we go again.”

C H A P T E R 1 1
The Things He Ate
?
This pregnancy was different. Our miscarriage
had taught us some important lessons, and
this time we had no intention of repeating our
mistakes. Most important, we kept our news the
most closely guarded secret since D-day. Except
for Jenny’s doctors and nurses, no one, not even
our parents, was brought into our confidence.
When we had friends over, Jenny sipped grape
juice from a wineglass so as not to raise suspicions.
In addition to the secrecy, we were simply more
measured in our excitement, even when we were
alone. We began sentences with conditional
clauses, such as “If everything works out . . .”
and “Assuming all goes well.” It was as though we
could jinx the pregnancy simply by gushing about
it. We didn’t dare let our joy out of check lest it
turn and bite us.
132 John Grogan
We locked away all the chemical cleaners and
pesticides. We weren’t going down that road
again. Jenny became a convert to the natural
cleaning powers of vinegar, which was up to even
the ultimate challenge of dissolving Marley’s
dried saliva off the walls. We found that boric acid,
a white powder lethal to bugs and harmless to humans,
worked pretty well at keeping Marley and
his bedding flea-free. And if he needed an occasional
flea dip, we would leave it to professionals.
Jenny rose at dawn each morning and took Marley
for a brisk walk along the water. I would just
be waking up when they returned, smelling of
briny ocean air. My wife was the picture of robust
health in all ways but one. She spent most days, all
day long, on the verge of throwing up. But she
wasn’t complaining; she greeted each wave of
nausea with what can only be described as gleeful
acceptance, for it was a sign that the tiny experiment
inside her was chugging along just fine.
Indeed it was. This time around, Essie took my
videotape and recorded the first faint, grainy images
of our baby. We could hear the heart beating,
see its four tiny chambers pulsing. We could trace
the outline of the head and count all four limbs.
Dr. Sherman popped his head into the sonogram
room to pronounce everything perfect, and then
looked at Jenny and said in that booming voice of
Marley & Me 133
his, “What are you crying for, kid? You’re supposed
to be happy.” Essie whacked him with her
clipboard and scolded, “You go away and leave her
alone,” then rolled her eyes at Jenny as if to say,
“Men! They are so clueless.”
When it came to dealing with pregnant wives,
clueless would describe me. I gave Jenny her
space, sympathized with her in her nausea and
pain, and tried not to grimace noticeably when she
insisted on reading her What to Expect When
You’re Expecting book aloud to me. I complimented
her figure as her belly swelled, saying
things like “You look great. Really. You look like a
svelte little shoplifter who just slipped a basketball
under her shirt.” I even tried my best to indulge
her increasingly bizarre and irrational behavior. I
was soon on a first-name basis with the overnight
clerk at the twenty-four-hour market as I stopped
in at all hours for ice cream or apples or celery or
chewing gum in flavors I never knew existed. “Are
you sure this is clove?” I would ask him. “She says
it has to be clove.”
One night when Jenny was about five months
pregnant she got it in her head that we needed
baby socks. Well, sure we did, I agreed, and of
course we would lay in a full complement before
the baby arrived. But she didn’t mean we would
need them eventually; she meant we needed them
134 John Grogan
right now. “We won’t have anything to put on the
baby’s feet when we come home from the hospital,”
she said in a quavering voice.
Never mind that the due date was still four
months away. Never mind that by then the outside
temperature would be a frosty ninety-six degrees.
Never mind that even a clueless guy like me knew
a baby would be bundled head to toe in a receiving
blanket when released from the maternity ward.
“Honey, c’mon,” I said. “Be reasonable. It’s
eight o’clock on Sunday night. Where am I supposed
to find baby socks?”
“We need socks,” she repeated.
“We have weeks to get socks,” I countered.
“Months to get socks.”
“I just see those little tiny toes,” she whimpered.
It was no use. I drove around grumbling until I
found a Kmart that was open and picked out a festive
selection of socks that were so ridiculously
minuscule they looked like matching thumb
warmers. When I got home and poured them out
of the bag, Jenny was finally satisfied. At last we
had socks. And thank God we had managed to
grab up the last few available pair before the national
supply ran dry, which could have happened
at any moment without warning. Our baby’s fragile
little digits were now safe. We could go to bed
and sleep in peace.
Marley & Me 135
? ? ?
As the pregnancy progressed, so did Marley’s
training. I worked with him every day, and now I
was able to entertain our friends by yelling, “Incoming!”
and watching him crash to the floor, all
four limbs splayed. He came consistently on command
(unless there was something riveting his
attention, such as another dog, cat, squirrel, butterfly,
mailman, or floating weed seed); he sat consistently
(unless he felt strongly like standing); and
heeled reliably (unless there was something so
tempting it was worth strangling himself over—
see dogs, cats, squirrels, etc., above). He was coming
along, but that’s not to say he was mellowing
into a calm, well-behaved dog. If I towered over
him and barked stern orders, he would obey,
sometimes even eagerly. But his default setting
was stuck on eternal incorrigibility.
He also had an insatiable appetite for mangoes,
which fell by the dozens in the backyard. Each
weighed a pound or more and was so sweet it
could make your teeth ache. Marley would stretch
out in the grass, anchor a ripe mango between his
front paws, and go about surgically removing
every speck of flesh from the skin. He would hold
the large pits in his mouth like lozenges, and when
he finally spit them out they looked like they had
136 John Grogan
been cleaned in an acid bath. Some days he would
be out there for hours, noshing away in a fruitand-
fiber frenzy.
As with anyone who eats too much fruit, his
constitution began to change. Soon our backyard
was littered with large piles of loose, festively colored
dog droppings. The one advantage to this
was that you would have to be legally blind to accidentally
step in a heap of his poop, which in
mango season took on the radiant fluorescence of
orange traffic cones.
He ate other things as well. And these, too, did
pass. I saw the evidence each morning as I shoveled
up his piles. Here a toy plastic soldier, there a
rubber band. In one load a mangled soda-bottle
top. In another the gnawed cap to a ballpoint pen.
“So that’s where my comb went!” I exclaimed one
morning.
He ate bath towels, sponges, socks, used
Kleenex. Handi Wipes were a particular favorite,
and when they eventually came out the other end,
they looked like little blue flags marking each fluorescent
orange mountain.
Not everything went down easily, and Marley
vomited with the ease and regularity of a hardcore
bulimic. We would hear him let out a loud
gaaaaack! in the next room, and by the time we
rushed in, there would be another household item,
Marley & Me 137
sitting in a puddle of half-digested mangoes and
dog chow. Being considerate, Marley never puked
on the hardwood floors or even the kitchen
linoleum if he could help it. He always aimed for
the Persian rug.
Jenny and I had the foolish notion that it would be
nice to have a dog we could trust to be alone in the
house for short periods. Locking him in the
bunker every time we stepped out was becoming
tedious, and as Jenny said, “What’s the point of
having a dog if he can’t greet you at the door when
you get home?” We knew full well we didn’t dare
leave him in the house unaccompanied if there
was any possibility of a rainstorm. Even with his
doggie downers, he still proved himself capable of
digging quite energetically for China. When the
weather was clear, though, we didn’t want to have
to lock him in the garage every time we stepped
out for a few minutes.
We began leaving him briefly while we ran to
the store or dropped by a neighbor’s house. Sometimes
he did just fine and we would return to find
the house unscathed. On these days, we would
spot his black nose pushed through the miniblinds
as he stared out the living room window waiting
for us. Other days he didn’t do quite so well, and
138 John Grogan
we usually knew trouble awaited us before we
even opened the door because he was not at the
window but off hiding somewhere.
In Jenny’s sixth month of pregnancy, we returned
after being away for less than an hour to
find Marley under the bed—at his size, he really
had to work to get under there—looking like he’d
just murdered the mailman. Guilt radiated off
him. The house seemed fine, but we knew he was
hiding some dark secret, and we walked from
room to room, trying to ascertain just what he had
done wrong. Then I noticed that the foam cover to
one of the stereo speakers was missing. We looked
everywhere for it. Gone without a trace. Marley
just might have gotten away with it had I not
found incontrovertible evidence of his guilt when
I went on poop patrol the next morning. Remnants
of the speaker cover surfaced for days.
During our next outing, Marley surgically removed
the woofer cone from the same speaker.
The speaker wasn’t knocked over or in any way
amiss; the paper cone was simply gone, as if
someone had sliced it out with a razor blade.
Eventually he got around to doing the same to the
other speaker. Another time, we came home to
find that our four-legged footstool was now threelegged,
and there was no sign whatsoever—not a
single splinter—of the missing limb.
Marley & Me 139
We swore it could never snow in South Florida,
but one day we opened the front door to find a full
blizzard in the living room. The air was filled with
soft white fluff floating down. Through the near
whiteout conditions we spotted Marley in front of
the fireplace, half buried in a snowdrift, violently
shaking a large feather pillow from side to side as
though he had just bagged an ostrich.
For the most part we were philosophical about
the damage. In every dog owner’s life a few cherished
family heirlooms must fall. Only once was I
ready to slice him open to retrieve what was rightfully
mine.
For her birthday I bought Jenny an eighteenkarat
gold necklace, a delicate chain with a tiny
clasp, and she immediately put it on. But a few
hours later she pressed her hand to her throat and
screamed, “My necklace! It’s gone.” The clasp
must have given out or never been fully secured.
“Don’t panic,” I told her. “We haven’t left the
house. It’s got to be right here somewhere.” We
began scouring the house, room by room. As we
searched, I gradually became aware that Marley
was more rambunctious than usual. I straightened
up and looked at him. He was squirming like a centipede.
When he noticed I had him in my sights, he
began evasive action. Oh, no, I thought—the Marley
Mambo. It could mean only one thing.
140 John Grogan
“What’s that,” Jenny asked, panic rising in her
voice, “hanging out of his mouth?”
It was thin and delicate. And gold. “Oh, shit!”
I said.
“No sudden moves,” she ordered, her voice
dropping to a whisper. We both froze.
“Okay, boy, it’s all right,” I coaxed like a hostage
negotiator on a SWAT team. “We’re not mad at
you. Come on now. We just want the necklace
back.” Instinctively, Jenny and I began to circle
him from opposite directions, moving with glacial
slowness. It was as if he were wired with high explosives
and one false move could set him off.
“Easy, Marley,” Jenny said in her calmest voice.
“Easy now. Drop the necklace and no one gets
hurt.”
Marley eyed us suspiciously, his head darting
back and forth between us. We had him cornered,
but he knew he had something we wanted. I could
see him weighing his options, a ransom demand,
perhaps. Leave two hundred unmarked Milk-
Bones in a plain paper bag or you’ll never see
your precious little necklace again.
“Drop it, Marley,” I whispered, taking another
small step forward. His whole body began to wag.
I crept forward by degrees. Almost imperceptibly,
Jenny closed in on his flank. We were within striking
distance. We glanced at each other and knew,
Marley & Me 141
without speaking, what to do. We had been
through the Property Recovery Drill countless
times before. She would lunge for the hindquarters,
pinning his back legs to prevent escape. I
would lunge for the head, prying open his jaws
and nabbing the contraband. With any luck, we’d
be in and out in a matter of seconds. That was the
plan, and Marley saw it coming.
We were less than two feet away from him. I
nodded to Jenny and silently mouthed, “On
three.” But before we could make our move, he
threw his head back and made a loud smacking
sound. The tail end of the chain, which had been
dangling out of his mouth, disappeared. “He’s
eating it!” Jenny screamed. Together we dove at
him, Jenny tackling him by the hind legs as I
gripped him in a headlock. I forced his jaws open
and pushed my whole hand into his mouth and
down his throat. I probed every flap and crevice
and came up empty. “It’s too late,” I said. “He
swallowed it.” Jenny began slapping him on the
back, yelling, “Cough it up, damn it!” But it was
no use. The best she got out of him was a loud,
satisfied burp.
Marley may have won the battle, but we knew it
was just a matter of time before we won the war.
Nature’s call was on our side. Sooner or later, what
went in had to come out. As disgusting as the
142 John Grogan
thought was, I knew if I poked through his excrement
long enough, I would find it. Had it been,
say, a silver chain, or a gold-plated chain, something
of any less value, my queasiness might have
won out. But this chain was solid gold and had set
me back a decent chunk of pay. Grossed out or
not, I was going in.
And so I prepared Marley his favorite laxative—
a giant bowl of dead-ripe sliced mangoes—and
settled in for the long wait. For three days I followed
him around every time I let him out, eagerly
waiting to swoop in with my shovel. Instead of
tossing his piles over the fence, I carefully placed
each on a wide board in the grass and poked it
with a tree branch while I sprayed with a garden
hose, gradually washing the digested material
away into the grass and leaving behind any foreign
objects. I felt like a gold miner working a sluice
and coming up with a treasure trove of swallowed
junk, from shoelaces to guitar picks. But no necklace.
Where the hell was it? Shouldn’t it have come
out by now? I began wondering if I had missed it,
accidentally washing it into the grass, where it
would remain lost forever. But how could I miss a
twenty-inch gold chain? Jenny was following my
recovery operation from the porch with keen interest
and even came up with a new nickname for
Marley & Me 143
me. “Hey, Scat Man Doo, any luck yet?” she
called out.
On the fourth day, my perseverance paid off. I
scooped up Marley’s latest deposit, repeating what
had become my daily refrain—“I can’t believe I’m
doing this”—and began poking and spraying. As
the poop melted away, I searched for any sign of
the necklace. Nothing. I was about to give up
when I spotted something odd: a small brown
lump, about the size of a lima bean. It wasn’t even
close to being large enough to be the missing jewelry,
yet clearly it did not seem to belong there. I
pinned it down with my probing branch, which I
had officially christened the Shit Stick, and gave
the object a strong blast from the hose nozzle. As
the water washed it clean, I got a glimmer of
something exceptionally bright and shiny. Eureka!
I had struck gold.
The necklace was impossibly compressed, many
times smaller than I would have guessed possible.
It was as though some unknown alien power, a
black hole perhaps, had sucked it into a mysterious
dimension of space and time before spitting it
out again. And, actually, that wasn’t too far from
the truth. The strong stream of water began to
loosen the hard wad, and gradually the lump of
gold unraveled back to its original shape, untan144
John Grogan
gled and unmangled. Good as new. No, actually
better than new. I took it inside to show Jenny,
who was ecstatic to have it back, despite its dubious
passage. We both marveled at how blindingly
bright it was now—far more dazzling than when it
had gone in. Marley’s stomach acids had done an
amazing job. It was the most brilliant gold I had
ever seen. “Man,” I said with a whistle. “We
should open a jewelry-cleaning business.”
“We could make a killing with the dowagers in
Palm Beach,” Jenny agreed.
“Yes, ladies,” I parroted in my best slicksalesman
voice, “our secret patented process is not
available at any store! The proprietary Marley
Method will restore your treasured valuables to a
blinding brilliance you never thought possible.”
“It’s got possibilities, Grogan,” Jenny said, and
went off to disinfect her recovered birthday present.
She wore that gold chain for years, and every
time I looked at it I had the same vivid flashback
to my brief and ultimately successful career in
gold speculation. Scat Man Doo and his trusty Shit
Stick had gone where no man had ever gone before.
And none should ever go again.
C H A P T E R 1 2
Welcome to the Indigent Ward
?
You don’t give birth to your first child every
day, and so, when St. Mary’s Hospital in
West Palm Beach offered us the option of paying
extra for a luxury birthing suite, we jumped at the
chance. The suites looked like upper-end hotel
rooms, spacious, bright, and well appointed with
wood-grained furniture, floral wallpaper, curtains,
a whirlpool bath, and, just for Dad, a comfy couch
that folded out into a bed. Instead of standardissue
hospital food, “guests” were offered a choice
of gourmet dinners. You could even order a bottle
of champagne, though this was mostly for the fathers
to chug on their own, as breast-feeding
mothers were discouraged from having more than
a celebratory sip.
“Man, it’s just like being on vacation!” I ex146
John Grogan
claimed, bouncing on the Dad Couch as we took a
tour several weeks before Jenny’s due date.
The suites catered to the yuppie set and were a
big source of profits for the hospital, bringing in
hard cash from couples with money to blow above
the standard insurance allotment for deliveries. A
bit of an indulgence, we agreed, but why not?
When Jenny’s big day came and we arrived at
the hospital, overnight bag in hand, we were told
there was a little problem.
“A problem?” I asked.
“It must be a good day for having babies,” the
receptionist said cheerfully. “All the birthing
suites are already taken.”
Taken? This was the most important day of our
lives. What about the comfy couch and romantic
dinner for two and champagne toast? “Now, wait a
second,” I complained. “We made our reservation
weeks ago.”
“I’m sorry,” the woman said with a noticeable
lack of sympathy. “We don’t exactly have a lot of
control over when mothers go into labor.”
She made a valid point. It wasn’t like she could
hurry someone along. She directed us to another
floor, where we would be issued a standard hospital
room. But when we arrived in the maternity
ward, the nurse at the counter had more bad news.
“Would you believe every last room is filled?” she
Marley & Me 147
said. No, we couldn’t. Jenny seemed to take it in
stride, but I was getting testy now. “What do you
suggest, the parking lot?” I snapped.
The nurse smiled calmly at me, apparently
well familiar with the antics of nervous fathersto-
be, and said, “Don’t you worry. We’ll find a
spot for you.”
After a flurry of phone calls, she sent us down a
long hallway and through a set of double doors,
where we found ourselves in a mirror image of the
maternity ward we had just left except for one obvious
difference—the patients were definitely not
the buttoned-down, disposable-income yuppies
we had gone through Lamaze class with. We could
hear the nurses talking in Spanish to patients, and
standing in the hallway outside the rooms, brownskinned
men holding straw hats in rugged hands
waited nervously. Palm Beach County is known as
a playground for the obscenely rich, but what is
less widely known is that it also is home to huge
farms that stretch across drained Everglades
swamp for miles west of town. Thousands of migrant
workers, mostly from Mexico and Central
America, migrate into South Florida each growing
season to pick the peppers, tomatoes, lettuce, and
celery that supply much of the East Coast’s winter
vegetable needs. It seems we had discovered
where the migrant workers came to have their ba148
John Grogan
bies. Periodically, a woman’s anguished scream
would pierce the air, followed by awful moans and
calls of “Mi madre!” The place sounded like a
house of horrors. Jenny was white as a ghost.
The nurse led us into a small cubicle containing
one bed, one chair, and a bank of electronic monitors
and handed Jenny a gown to change into.
“Welcome to the indigent ward!” Dr. Sherman
said brightly when he breezed in a few minutes
later. “Don’t be fooled by the bare-bones rooms,”
he said. They were outfitted with some of the
most sophisticated medical equipment in the hospital,
and the nurses were some of the best
trained. Because poor women often lacked access
to prenatal care, theirs were some of the highestrisk
pregnancies. We were in good hands, he assured
us as he broke Jenny’s water. Then, as
quickly as he had appeared, he was gone.
Indeed, as the morning progressed and Jenny
fought her way through ferocious contractions,
we discovered we were in very good hands. The
nurses were seasoned professionals who exuded
confidence and warmth, attentively hovering
over her, checking the baby’s heartbeat and
coaching Jenny along. I stood helplessly by, trying
my best to be supportive, but it wasn’t working.
At one point Jenny snarled at me through
gritted teeth, “If you ask me one more time how
Marley & Me 149
I’m doing, I’m going to RIP YOUR FACE
OFF!” I must have looked wounded because one
of the nurses walked around to my side of the
bed, squeezed my shoulders sympathetically, and
said, “Welcome to childbirth, Dad. It’s all part of
the experience.”
I began slipping out of the room to join the
other men waiting in the hallway. Each of us
leaned against the wall beside our respective doors
as our wives screamed and moaned away. I felt a
little ridiculous, dressed in my polo shirt, khakis,
and Top-Siders, but the farmworkers didn’t seem
to hold it against me. Soon we were smiling and
nodding knowingly to one another. They couldn’t
speak English and I couldn’t speak Spanish, but
that didn’t matter. We were in this together.
Or almost together. I learned that day that in
America pain relief is a luxury, not a necessity. For
those who could afford it—or whose insurance
covered it, as ours did—the hospital provided
epidurals, which delivered pain-blocking oblivion
directly into the central nervous system. About
four hours into Jenny’s labor, an anesthesiologist
arrived and slipped a long needle through the skin
along her spine and attached it to an intravenous
drip. Within minutes, Jenny was numb from the
waist down and resting comfortably. The Mexican
women nearby were not so lucky. They were left
150 John Grogan
to tough it out the old-fashioned way, and their
shrieks continued to puncture the air.
The hours passed. Jenny pushed. I coached. As
night fell I stepped out into the hall bearing a tiny
swaddled football. I lifted my newborn son above
my head for my new friends to see and called out,
“Es el nino!” The other dads flashed big smiles
and held up their thumbs in the international sign
of approval. Unlike our heated struggle to name
our dog, we would easily and almost instantly settle
on a name for our firstborn son. He would be
named Patrick for the first of my line of Grogans
to arrive in the United States from County Limerick,
Ireland. A nurse came into our cubicle and
told us a birthing suite was now available. It
seemed rather beside the point to change rooms
now, but she helped Jenny into a wheelchair,
placed our son in her arms, and whisked us away.
The gourmet dinner wasn’t all it was cracked up
to be.
During the weeks leading up to her due date,
Jenny and I had had long strategy talks about how
best to acclimate Marley to the new arrival who
would instantly knock him off his until-now
undisputed perch as Most Favored Dependent.
We wanted to let him down gently. We had heard
Marley & Me 151
stories of dogs becoming terribly jealous of infants
and acting out in unacceptable ways—
everything from urinating on prized possessions to
knocking over bassinets to outright attacks—that
usually resulted in a one-way ticket to the pound.
As we converted the spare bedroom into a nursery,
we gave Marley full access to the crib and bedding
and all the various accoutrements of infancy. He
sniffed and drooled and licked until his curiosity
was satisfied. In the thirty-six hours that Jenny remained
hospitalized recuperating after the birth, I
made frequent trips home to visit Marley, armed
with receiving blankets and anything else that carried
the baby’s scent. On one of my visits, I even
brought home a tiny used disposable diaper, which
Marley sniffed with such vigor I feared he might
suck it up his nostril, requiring more costly medical
intervention.
When I finally brought mother and child home,
Marley was oblivious. Jenny placed baby Patrick,
asleep in his car carrier, in the middle of our bed
and then joined me in greeting Marley out in the
garage, where we had an uproarious reunion.
When Marley had settled down from frantically
wild to merely desperately happy, we brought
him into the house with us. Our plan was to just
go about our business, not pointing the baby out
to him. We would hover nearby and let him grad152
John Grogan
ually discover the presence of the newcomer on
his own.
Marley followed Jenny into the bedroom, jamming
his nose deep into her overnight bag as she
unpacked. He clearly had no idea there was a living
thing sitting on our bed. Then Patrick stirred
and let out a small, birdlike chirp. Marley’s ears
pulled up and he froze. Where did that come
from? Patrick chirped again, and Marley lifted
one paw in the air, pointing like a bird dog. My
God, he was pointing at our baby boy like a hunting
dog would point at . . . prey. In that instant, I
thought of the feather pillow he had attacked with
such ferocity. He wasn’t so dense as to mistake a
baby for a pheasant, was he?
Then he lunged. It was not a ferocious “kill the
enemy” lunge; there were no bared teeth or
growls. But it wasn’t a “welcome to the neighborhood,
little buddy” lunge, either. His chest hit the
mattress with such force that the entire bed jolted
across the floor. Patrick was wide awake now, eyes
wide. Marley recoiled and lunged again, this time
bringing his mouth within inches of our newborn’s
toes. Jenny dove for the baby and I dove for
the dog, pulling him back by the collar with both
hands. Marley was beside himself, straining to get
at this new creature that somehow had snuck into
our inner sanctum. He reared on his hind legs and
Marley & Me 153
I pulled back on his collar, feeling like the Lone
Ranger with Silver. “Well, that went well,” I said.
Jenny unbuckled Patrick from his car seat; I
pinned Marley between my legs and held him
tightly by the collar with both fists. Even Jenny
could see Marley meant no harm. He was panting
with that dopey grin of his; his eyes were bright
and his tail was wagging. As I held tight, she gradually
came closer, allowing Marley to sniff first the
baby’s toes, then his feet and calves and thighs.
The poor kid was only a day and a half old, and he
was already under attack by a Shop-Vac. When
Marley reached the diaper, he seemed to enter an
altered state of consciousness, a sort of Pampersinduced
trance. He had reached the holy land.
The dog looked positively euphoric.
“One false move, Marley, and you’re toast,”
Jenny warned, and she meant it. If he had shown
even the slightest aggression toward the baby, that
would have been it. But he never did. We soon
learned our problem was not keeping Marley from
hurting our precious baby boy. Our problem was
keeping him out of the diaper pail.
As the days turned into weeks and the weeks into
months, Marley came to accept Patrick as his new
best friend. One night early on, as I was turning
154 John Grogan
off the lights to go to bed, I couldn’t find Marley
anywhere. Finally I thought to look in the nursery,
and there he was, stretched out on the floor beside
Patrick’s crib, the two of them snoring away in
stereophonic fraternal bliss. Marley, our wild
crashing bronco, was different around Patrick. He
seemed to understand that this was a fragile, defenseless
little human, and he moved gingerly
whenever he was near him, licking his face and
ears delicately. As Patrick began crawling, Marley
would lie quietly on the floor and let the baby scale
him like a mountain, tugging on his ears, poking
his eyes, and pulling out little fistfuls of fur. None
of it fazed him. Marley just sat like a statue. He
was a gentle giant around Patrick, and he accepted
his second-fiddle status with bonhomie and goodnatured
resignation.
Not everyone approved of the blind faith we
placed in our dog. They saw a wild, unpredictable,
and powerful beast—he was approaching a hundred
pounds by now—and thought us foolhardy to
trust him around a defenseless infant. My mother
was firmly in this camp and not shy about letting
us know it. It pained her to watch Marley lick her
grandson. “Do you know where that tongue has
been?” she would ask rhetorically. She warned us
darkly that we should never leave a dog and a baby
alone in the same room. The ancient predatory inMarley
& Me 155
stinct could surface without warning. If it were up
to her, a concrete wall would separate Marley and
Patrick at all times.
One day while she was visiting from Michigan,
she let out a shriek from the living room. “John,
quick!” she screamed. “The dog’s biting the
baby!” I raced out of the bedroom, half dressed,
only to find Patrick swinging happily in his windup
swing, Marley lying beneath him. Indeed, the
dog was snapping at the baby, but it was not as my
panicky mother had feared. Marley had positioned
himself directly in Patrick’s flight path with his
head right where Patrick’s bottom, strapped in a
fabric sling, stopped at the peak of each arc before
swinging back in the opposite direction. Each time
Patrick’s diapered butt came within striking distance,
Marley would snap playfully at it, goosing
him in the process. Patrick squealed with delight.
“Aw, Ma, that’s nothing,” I said. “Marley just has
a thing for his diapers.”
Jenny and I settled into a routine. At nighttime she
would get up with Patrick every few hours to
nurse him, and I would take the 6:00 A.M. feeding
so she could sleep in. Half asleep, I would pluck
him from his crib, change his diaper, and make a
bottle of formula for him. Then the payoff: I
156 John Grogan
would sit on the back porch with his tiny, warm
body nestled against my stomach as he sucked on
the bottle. Sometimes I would let my face rest
against the top of his head and doze off as he ate
lustily. Sometimes I would listen to National Public
Radio and watch the dawn sky turn from purple
to pink to blue. When he was fed and I had
gotten a good burp out of him, I would get us both
dressed, whistle for Marley, and take a morning
walk along the water. We invested in a jogging
stroller with three large bicycle tires that allowed
it to go pretty much anywhere, including through
sand and over curbs. The three of us must have
made quite a sight each morning, Marley out in
front leading the charge like a mush dog, me in the
rear holding us back for dear life, and Patrick in
the middle, gleefully waving his arms in the air
like a traffic cop. By the time we arrived home,
Jenny would be up and have coffee on. We would
strap Patrick into his high chair and sprinkle
Cheerios on the tray for him, which Marley would
snitch the instant we turned away, laying his head
sideways on the tray and using his tongue to scoop
them into his mouth. Stealing food from a baby,
we thought; how low will he stoop? But Patrick
seemed immensely amused by the whole routine,
and pretty soon he learned how to push his Cheerios
over the side so he could watch Marley scramMarley
& Me 157
ble around, eating them off the floor. He also discovered
that if he dropped Cheerios into his lap,
Marley would poke his head up under the tray and
jab Patrick in the stomach as he went for the errant
cereal, sending him into peals of laughter.
Parenthood, we found, suited us well. We settled
into its rhythms, celebrated its simple joys, and
grinned our way through its frustrations, knowing
even the bad days soon enough would be cherished
memories. We had everything we could ask for. We
had our precious baby. We had our numbskull dog.
We had our little house by the water. Of course, we
also had each other. That November, my newspaper
promoted me to columnist, a coveted position
that gave me my own space on the section front
three times a week to spout off about whatever I
wanted. Life was good. When Patrick was nine
months old, Jenny wondered aloud when we might
want to start thinking about having another baby.
“Oh, gee, I don’t know,” I said. We always knew
we wanted more than one, but I hadn’t really
thought about a time frame. Repeating everything
we had just gone through seemed like something
best not rushed into. “I guess we could just go
back off birth control again and see what happens,”
I suggested.
“Ah,” Jenny said knowingly. “The old Que
sera, sera school of family planning.”
158 John Grogan
“Hey, don’t knock it,” I said. “It worked before.”
So that is what we did. We figured if we conceived
anytime in the next year, the timing would
be about right. As Jenny did the math, she said,
“Let’s say six months to get pregnant and then
nine more months to deliver. That would put two
full years between them.”
It sounded good to me. Two years was a long
way off. Two years was next to an eternity. Two
years was almost not real. Now that I had proved
myself capable of the manly duty of insemination,
the pressure was off. No worries, no stress.
Whatever would be would be.
A week later, Jenny was knocked up.
C H A P T E R 1 3
A Scream in the Night
?
With another baby growing inside her,
Jenny’s odd, late-night food cravings returned.
One night it was root beer, the next grapefruit.
“Do we have any Snickers bars?” she asked
once a little before midnight. It looked like I was
in for another jaunt down to the all-night convenience
store. I whistled for Marley, hooked him to
his leash, and set off for the corner. In the parking
lot, a young woman with teased blond hair, bright
lavender lips, and some of the highest heels I had
ever seen engaged us. “Oh, he’s so cute!” she
gushed. “Hi, puppy. What’s your name, cutie?”
Marley, of course, was more than happy to strike
up a friendship, and I pulled him tight against me
so he wouldn’t slobber on her purple miniskirt
and white tank top. “You just want to kiss me,
160 John Grogan
poochie, don’t you?” she said, and made
smooching noises with her lips.
As we chatted, I wondered what this attractive
woman was doing out in a parking lot along Dixie
Highway alone at this hour. She did not appear to
have a car. She did not appear to be on her way
into or out of the store. She was just there, a
parking-lot ambassador cheerfully greeting
strangers and their dogs as they approached as
though she were our neighborhood’s answer to the
Wal-Mart greeters. Why was she so immensely
friendly? Beautiful women were never friendly, at
least not to strange men in parking lots at midnight.
A car pulled up, and an older man rolled
down his window. “Are you Heather?” he asked.
She shot me a bemused smile as if to say, You do
what you have to do to pay the rent. “Gotta
run,” she said, hopping into the car. “Bye,
puppy.”
“Don’t fall too in love, Marley,” I said as they
drove off. “You can’t afford her.”
A few weeks later, at ten o’clock on a Sunday
morning, I walked Marley to the same store to
buy a Miami Herald, and again we were approached,
this time by two young women,
teenagers really, who both looked strung out and
nervous. Unlike the first woman we had met, they
were not terribly attractive and had taken no efMarley
& Me 161
forts to make themselves more so. They both
looked desperate for their next hit off a crack
pipe. “Harold?” one of them asked me. “Nope,”
I said, but what I was thinking was, Do you really
think some guy would show up for anonymous
sex and bring his Labrador retriever along?
How twisted did these two think I was? As I
pulled a newspaper out of the box in front of the
store, a car arrived—Harold, I presumed—and
the girls drove off with him.
I wasn’t the only one witnessing the burgeoning
prostitution trade along Dixie Highway. On a
visit, my older sister, dressed as modestly as a
nun, went for a midday walk and was propositioned
twice by would-be johns trolling by in
cars. Another guest arrived at our house to report
that a woman had just exposed her breasts
to him as he drove past, not that he particularly
minded.
In response to complaints from residents, the
mayor promised to publicly embarrass men arrested
for soliciting, and the police began running
stings, positioning undercover women officers on
the corner and waiting for would-be customers to
take the bait. The decoy cops were the homeliest
hookers I had ever seen—think J. Edgar Hoover in
drag—but that didn’t stop men from seeking their
services. One bust went down on the curb directly
162 John Grogan
in front of our house—with a television news crew
in tow.
If it had been just the hookers and their customers,
we could have made our separate peace,
but the criminal activity didn’t stop there. Our
neighborhood seemed to grow dicier each day. On
one of our walks along the water, Jenny, suffering
a particularly debilitating bout of pregnancyrelated
nausea, decided to head home alone while I
continued on with Patrick and Marley. As she
walked along a side street, she heard a car idling
behind her. Her first thought was that it was a
neighbor pulling up to say hello or someone needing
directions. When she turned to look into the
car, the driver sat fully exposed and masturbating.
After he got the expected response, he sped in reverse
down the street so as to hide his license tag.
When Patrick was not quite a year old, murder
again came to our block. Like Mrs. Nedermier,
the victim was an elderly woman who lived alone.
Hers was the first house as you turned onto
Churchill Road off Dixie Highway, directly behind
the all-night, open-air Laundromat, and I
only knew her to wave to as I passed. Unlike Mrs.
Nedermier’s murder, this crime did not afford us
the tidy self-denial of an inside job. The victim
was chosen at random, and the attacker was a
stranger who snuck into her house while she was
Marley & Me 163
in the backyard hanging her laundry on a Saturday
afternoon. When she returned, he bound her
wrists with telephone cord and shoved her beneath
a mattress as he ransacked the house for
money. He fled with his plunder as my frail neighbor
slowly suffocated beneath the weight of the
mattress. Police quickly arrested a drifter who had
been seen hanging around the coin laundry; when
they emptied his pockets they found his total haul
had been sixteen dollars and change. The price of
a human life.
The crime swirling around us made us grateful
for Marley’s bigger-than-life presence in our
house. So what if he was an avowed pacifist whose
most aggressive attack strategy was known as the
Slobber Offensive? Who cared if his immediate
response to the arrival of any stranger was to grab
a tennis ball in the hope of having someone new to
play catch with? The intruders didn’t need to
know that. When strangers came to our door, we
no longer locked Marley away before answering.
We stopped assuring them how harmless he was.
Instead we now let drop vaguely ominous warnings,
such as “He’s getting so unpredictable
lately,” and “I don’t know how many more of his
lunges this screen door can take.”
We had a baby now and another on the way. We
were no longer so cheerfully cavalier about per164
John Grogan
sonal safety. Jenny and I often speculated about
just what, if anything, Marley would do if someone
ever tried to hurt the baby or us. I tended to
think he would merely grow frantic, yapping and
panting. Jenny placed more faith in him. She was
convinced his special loyalty to us, especially to his
new Cheerios pusher, Patrick, would translate in a
crisis to a fierce primal protectiveness that would
rise up from deep within him. “No way,” I said.
“He’d ram his nose into the bad guy’s crotch and
call it a day.” Either way, we agreed, he scared the
hell out of people. That was just fine with us. His
presence made the difference between us feeling
vulnerable or secure in our own home. Even as we
continued to debate his effectiveness as a protector,
we slept easily in bed knowing he was beside
us. Then one night he settled the dispute once and
for all.
It was October and the weather still had not
turned. The night was sweltering, and we had the
air-conditioning on and windows shut. After the
eleven o’clock news I let Marley out to pee,
checked Patrick in his crib, turned off the lights,
and crawled into bed beside Jenny, already fast
asleep. Marley, as he always did, collapsed in a
heap on the floor beside me, releasing an exaggerated
sigh. I was just drifting off when I heard it—
a shrill, sustained, piercing noise. I was instantly
Marley & Me 165
wide awake, and Marley was, too. He stood frozen
beside the bed in the dark, ears cocked. It came
again, penetrating the sealed windows, rising
above the hum of the air conditioner. A scream. A
woman’s scream, loud and unmistakable. My first
thought was teenagers clowning around in the
street, not an unusual occurrence. But this was not
a happy, stop-tickling-me scream. There was desperation
in it, real terror, and it was dawning on
me that someone was in terrible trouble.
“Come on, boy,” I whispered, slipping out
of bed.
“Don’t go out there.” Jenny’s voice came from
beside me in the dark. I hadn’t realized she was
awake and listening.
“Call the police,” I told her. “I’ll be careful.”
Holding Marley by the end of his choker chain,
I stepped out onto the front porch in my boxer
shorts just in time to glimpse a figure sprinting
down the street toward the water. The scream
came again, from the opposite direction. Outside,
without the walls and glass to buffet it, the
woman’s voice filled the night air with an amazing,
piercing velocity, the likes of which I had heard
only in horror movies. Other porch lights were
flicking on. The two young men who shared a
rental house across the street from me burst outside,
wearing nothing but cutoffs, and ran toward
166 John Grogan
the screams. I followed cautiously at a distance,
Marley tight by my side. I saw them run up on a
lawn a few houses away and then, seconds later,
come dashing back toward me.
“Go to the girl!” one of them shouted, pointing.
“She’s been stabbed.”
“We’re going after him!” the other yelled, and
they sprinted off barefoot down the street in the
direction the figure had fled. My neighbor Barry, a
fearless single woman who had bought and rehabilitated
a rundown bungalow next to the Nedermier
house, jumped into her car and joined the
chase.
I let go of Marley’s collar and ran toward the
scream. Three doors down I found my seventeenyear-
old neighbor standing alone in her driveway,
bent over, sobbing in jagged raspy gasps. She
clasped her ribs, and beneath her hands I could see
a circle of blood spreading across her blouse. She
was a thin, pretty girl with sand-colored hair that
fell over her shoulders. She lived in the house with
her divorced mother, a pleasant woman who
worked as a night nurse. I had chatted a few times
with the mother, but I only knew her daughter to
wave to. I didn’t even know her name.
“He said not to scream or he’d stab me,” she
said, sobbing; her words gushed out in heaving,
hyperventilated gulps. “But I screamed. I
Marley & Me 167
screamed, and he stabbed me.” As if I might not
believe her, she lifted her shirt to show me the
puckered wound that had punctured her rib cage.
“I was sitting in my car with the radio on. He just
came out of nowhere.” I put my hand on her arm
to calm her, and as I did I saw her knees buckling.
She collapsed into my arms, her legs folding fawnlike
beneath her. I eased her down to the pavement
and sat cradling her. Her words came softer,
calmer now, and she fought to keep her eyes open.
“He told me not to scream,” she kept saying. “He
put his hand on my mouth and told me not to
scream.”
“You did the right thing,” I said. “You scared
him away.”
It occurred to me that she was going into shock,
and I had not the first idea what to do about it.
Come on, ambulance. Where are you? I comforted
her in the only way I knew how, as I would
comfort my own child, stroking her hair, holding
my palm against her cheek, wiping her tears away.
As she grew weaker, I kept telling her to hang on,
help was on the way. “You’re going to be okay,” I
said, but I wasn’t sure I believed it. Her skin was
ashen. We sat alone on the pavement like that for
what seemed hours but was in actuality, the police
report later showed, about three minutes. Only
gradually did I think to check on what had be168
John Grogan
come of Marley. When I looked up, there he
stood, ten feet from us, facing the street, in a determined,
bull-like crouch I had never seen before.
It was a fighter’s stance. His muscles bulged
at the neck; his jaw was clenched; the fur between
his shoulder blades bristled. He was intensely focused
on the street and appeared poised to lunge. I
realized in that instant that Jenny had been right.
If the armed assailant returned, he would have to
get past my dog first. At that moment I knew—I
absolutely knew without doubt—that Marley
would fight him to the death before he would let
him at us. I was emotional anyway as I held this
young girl, wondering if she was dying in my
arms. The sight of Marley so uncharacteristically
guarding us like that, so majestically fierce,
brought tears to my eyes. Man’s best friend?
Damn straight he was.
“I’ve got you,” I told the girl, but what I meant
to say, what I should have said, was that we had
her. Marley and me. “The police are coming,” I
said. “Hold on. Please, just hold on.”
Before she closed her eyes, she whispered, “My
name is Lisa.”
“I’m John,” I said. It seemed ridiculous, introducing
ourselves in these circumstances as though
we were at a neighborhood potluck. I almost
laughed at the absurdity of it. Instead, I tucked a
Marley & Me 169
strand of her hair behind her ear and said, “You’re
safe now, Lisa.”
Like an archangel sent from heaven, a police officer
came charging up the sidewalk. I whistled to
Marley and called, “It’s okay, boy. He’s okay.” And
it was as if, with that whistle, I had broken some
kind of trance. My goofy, good-natured pal was
back, trotting in circles, panting, trying to sniff us.
Whatever ancient instinct had welled up from the
recesses of his ancestral psyche was back in its
bottle again. Then more officers swarmed around
us, and soon an ambulance crew arrived with a
stretcher and wads of sterile gauze. I stepped out
of the way, told the police what I could, and
walked home, Marley loping ahead of me.
Jenny met me at the door and together we stood
in the front window watching the drama unfold on
the street. Our neighborhood looked like the set
from a police television drama. Red strobe lights
splashed through the windows. A police helicopter
hovered overhead, shining its spotlight down on
backyards and alleys. Cops set up roadblocks and
combed the neighborhood on foot. Their efforts
would be in vain; a suspect was never apprehended
and a motive never determined. My neighbors who
gave chase later told me they had not even caught a
glimpse of him. Jenny and I eventually returned to
bed, where we both lay awake for a long time.
170 John Grogan
“You would have been proud of Marley,” I told
her. “It was so strange. Somehow he knew how serious
this was. He just knew. He felt the danger,
and he was like a completely different dog.”
“I told you so,” she said. And she had.
As the helicopter thumped the air above us,
Jenny rolled onto her side and, before drifting off,
said, “Just another ho-hum night in the neighborhood.”
I reached down and felt in the dark for
Marley, lying beside me.
“You did all right tonight, big guy,” I whispered,
scratching his ears. “You earned your dog
chow.” My hand on his back, I drifted off to sleep.
It said something about South Florida’s numbness
to crime that the stabbing of a teenage girl as she
sat in her car in front of her home would merit
just six sentences in the morning newspaper. The
Sun-Sentinel’s account of the crime ran in the
briefs column on page 3B beneath the headline
“Man Attacks Girl.”
The story made no mention of me or Marley
or the guys across the street who set out half
naked after the assailant. It didn’t mention Barry,
who gave chase in her car. Or all the neighbors up
and down the block who turned on porch lights
and dialed 911. In South Florida’s seamy world of
Marley & Me 171
violent crime, our neighborhood’s drama was
just a minor hiccup. No deaths, no hostages, no
big deal.
The knife had punctured Lisa’s lung, and she
spent five days in the hospital and several weeks
recuperating at home. Her mother kept the neighbors
apprised of her recovery, but the girl remained
inside and out of sight. I worried about
the emotional wounds the attack might leave.
Would she ever again be comfortable leaving the
safety of her home? Our lives had come together
for just three minutes, but I felt invested in her as
a brother might be in a kid sister. I wanted to respect
her privacy, but I also wanted to see her, to
prove to myself she was going to be all right.
Then as I washed the cars in the driveway on a
Saturday, Marley chained up beside me, I looked
up and there she stood. Prettier than I had remembered.
Tanned, strong, athletic—looking whole
again. She smiled and asked, “Remember me?”
“Let’s see,” I said, feigning puzzlement. “You
look vaguely familiar. Weren’t you the one in front
of me at the Tom Petty concert who wouldn’t sit
down?”
She laughed, and I asked, “So how are you doing,
Lisa?”
“I’m good,” she said. “Just about back to normal.”
172 John Grogan
“You look great,” I told her. “A little better than
the last time I saw you.”
“Yeah, well,” she said, and looked down at her
feet. “What a night.”
“What a night,” I repeated.
That was all we said about it. She told me about
the hospital, the doctors, the detective who interviewed
her, the endless fruit baskets, the boredom
of sitting at home as she healed. But she steered
clear of the attack, and so did I. Some things were
best left behind.
Lisa stayed a long time that afternoon, following
me around the yard as I did chores, playing with
Marley, making small talk. I sensed there was
something she wanted to say but could not bring
herself to. She was seventeen; I didn’t expect her
to find the words. Our lives had collided without
plan or warning, two strangers thrown together by
a burst of inexplicable violence. There had been
no time for the usual proprieties that exist between
neighbors; no time to establish boundaries.
In a heartbeat, there we were, intimately locked
together in crisis, a dad in boxer shorts and a
teenage girl in a blood-soaked blouse, clinging to
each other and to hope. There was a closeness
there now. How could there not be? There was
also awkwardness, a slight embarrassment, for in
that moment we had caught each other with our
Marley & Me 173
guards down. Words were not necessary. I knew
she was grateful that I had come to her; I knew she
appreciated my efforts to comfort her, however
lame. She knew I cared deeply and was in her corner.
We had shared something that night on the
pavement—one of those brief, fleeting moments
of clarity that define all the others in a life—that
neither of us would soon forget.
“I’m glad you stopped by,” I said.
“I’m glad I did, too,” Lisa answered.
By the time she left, I had a good feeling about
this girl. She was strong. She was tough. She would
move forward. And indeed I found out years later,
when I learned she had built a career for herself as
a television broadcaster, that she had.

C H A P T E R 1 4
An Early Arrival
?
John.”
Through the fog of sleep, I gradually registered
my name being called. “John. John, wake
up.” It was Jenny; she was shaking me. “John, I
think the baby might be coming.”
I propped myself up on an elbow and rubbed
my eyes. Jenny was lying on her side, knees pulled
to her chest. “The baby what?”
“I’m having bad cramps,” she said. “I’ve been
lying here timing them. We need to call Dr.
Sherman.”
I was wide awake now. The baby was coming? I
was wild with anticipation for the birth of our second
child—another boy, we already knew from the
sonogram. The timing, though, was wrong, terribly
wrong. Jenny was twenty-one weeks into the
pregnancy, barely halfway through the forty-week
176 John Grogan
gestation period. Among her motherhood books
was a collection of high-definition in vitro photographs
showing a fetus at each week of development.
Just days earlier we had sat with the book,
studying the photos taken at twenty-one weeks
and marveling at how our baby was coming along.
At twenty-one weeks a fetus can fit in the palm of
a hand. It weighs less than a pound. Its eyes are
fused shut, its fingers like fragile little twigs, its
lungs not yet developed enough to distill oxygen
from air. At twenty-one weeks, a baby is barely viable.
The chance of surviving outside the womb is
small, and the chance of surviving without serious,
long-term health problems smaller yet.
There’s a reason nature keeps babies in the womb
for nine long months. At twenty-one weeks, the
odds are exceptionally long.
“It’s probably nothing,” I said. But I could feel
my heart pounding as I speed-dialed the ob-gyn
answering service. Two minutes later Dr. Sherman
called back, sounding groggy himself. “It might
just be gas,” he said, “but we better have a look.”
He told me to get Jenny to the hospital immediately.
I raced around the house, throwing items
into an overnight bag for her, making baby bottles,
packing the diaper bag. Jenny called her
friend and coworker Sandy, another new mom
who lived a few blocks away, and asked if we could
Marley & Me 177
drop Patrick off. Marley was up now, too, stretching,
yawning, shaking. Late-night road trip!
“Sorry, Mar,” I told him as I led him out to the
garage, grave disappointment on his face. “You’ve
got to hold down the fort.” I scooped Patrick out
of his crib, buckled him into his car seat without
waking him, and into the night we went.
At St. Mary’s neonatal intensive care unit, the
nurses quickly went to work. They got Jenny into
a hospital gown and hooked her to a monitor that
measured contractions and the baby’s heartbeat.
Sure enough, Jenny was having a contraction every
six minutes. This was definitely not gas. “Your
baby wants to come out,” one of the nurses said.
“We’re going to do everything we can to make
sure he doesn’t just yet.”
Over the phone Dr. Sherman asked them to
check whether she was dilating. A nurse inserted a
gloved finger and reported that Jenny was dilated
one centimeter. Even I knew this was not good. At
ten centimeters the cervix is fully dilated, the
point at which, in a normal delivery, the mother
begins to push. With each painful cramp, Jenny’s
body was pushing her one step closer to the point
of no return.
Dr. Sherman ordered an intravenous saline drip
and an injection of the labor inhibitor Brethine.
The contractions leveled out, but less than two
178 John Grogan
hours later they were back again with a fury, requiring
a second shot, then a third.
For the next twelve days Jenny remained hospitalized,
poked and prodded by a parade of perinatalogists
and tethered to monitors and intravenous
drips. I took vacation time and played single parent
to Patrick, doing my best to hold everything
together—the laundry, the feedings, meals, bills,
housework, the yard. Oh, yes, and that other living
creature in our home. Poor Marley’s status dropped
precipitously from second fiddle to not even in the
orchestra. Even as I ignored him, he kept up his end
of the relationship, never letting me out of his sight.
He faithfully followed me as I careened through the
house with Patrick in one arm, vacuuming or toting
laundry or fixing a meal with the other. I would stop
in the kitchen to toss a few dirty plates into the dishwasher,
and Marley would plod in after me, circle
around a half dozen times trying to pinpoint the exact
perfect location, and then drop to the floor. No
sooner had he settled in than I would dart to the
laundry room to move the clothes from the washing
machine to the dryer. He would follow after me, circle
around, paw at the throw rugs until they were
arranged to his liking, and plop down again, only to
have me head for the living room to pick up the
newspapers. So it would go. If he was lucky, I would
pause in my mad dash to give him a quick pat.
Marley & Me 179
One night after I finally got Patrick to sleep, I
fell back on the couch, exhausted. Marley pranced
over and dropped his rope tug toy in my lap and
looked up at me with those giant brown eyes of
his. “Aw, Marley,” I said. “I’m beat.” He put his
snout under the rope toy and flicked it up in the
air, waiting for me to try to grab it, ready to beat
me to the draw. “Sorry, pal,” I said. “Not tonight.”
He crinkled his brow and cocked his head.
Suddenly, his comfortable daily routine was in tatters.
His mistress was mysteriously absent, his
master no fun, and nothing the same. He let out a
little whine, and I could see he was trying to figure
it out. Why doesn’t John want to play anymore?
What happened to the morning walks? Why no
more wrestling on the floor? And where exactly
is Jenny, anyway? She hasn’t run off with that
Dalmatian in the next block, has she?
Life wasn’t completely bleak for Marley. On the
bright side, I had quickly reverted to my premarriage
(read: slovenly) lifestyle. By the power
vested in me as the only adult in the house, I suspended
the Married Couple Domesticity Act and
proclaimed the once banished Bachelor Rules to
be the law of the land. While Jenny was in the
hospital, shirts would be worn twice, even three
times, barring obvious mustard stains, between
washes; milk could be drunk directly from the
180 John Grogan
carton, and toilet seats would remain in the upright
position unless being sat on. Much to Marley’s
delight, I instituted a 24/7 open-door policy
for the bathroom. After all, it was just us guys.
This gave Marley yet a new opportunity for closeness
in a confined space. From there, it only made
sense to let him start drinking from the bathtub
tap. Jenny would have been appalled, but the way
I saw it, it sure beat the toilet. Now that the Seat-
Up Policy was firmly in place (and thus, by definition,
the Lid-Up Policy, too), I needed to offer
Marley a viable alternative to that attractive
porcelain pool of water just begging him to play
submarine with his snout.
I got into the habit of turning the bathtub
faucet on at a trickle while I was in the bathroom
so Marley could lap up some cool, fresh water.
The dog could not have been more thrilled had I
built him an exact replica of Splash Mountain. He
would twist his head up under the faucet and lap
away, tail banging the sink behind him. His thirst
had no bounds, and I became convinced he had
been a camel in an earlier life. I soon realized I had
created a bathtub monster; pretty soon Marley began
going into the bathroom alone without me and
standing there, staring forlornly at the faucet,
licking at it for any lingering drop, flicking the
drain knob with his nose until I couldn’t stand it
Marley & Me 181
any longer and would come in and turn it on for
him. Suddenly the water in his bowl was somehow
beneath him.
The next step on our descent into barbarity
came when I was showering. Marley figured out
he could shove his head past the shower curtain
and get not just a trickle but a whole waterfall. I’d
be lathering up and without warning his big tawny
head would pop in and he’d begin lapping at the
shower spray. “Just don’t tell Mom,” I said.
I tried to fool Jenny into thinking I had everything
effortlessly under control. “Oh, we’re totally
fine,” I told her, and then, turning to Patrick, I
would add, “aren’t we, partner?” To which he
would give his standard reply: “Dada!” and then,
pointing at the ceiling fan: “Fannnnn!” She knew
better. One day when I arrived with Patrick for
our daily visit, she stared at us in disbelief and
asked, “What in God’s name did you do to him?”
“What do you mean, what did I do to him?” I
replied. “He’s great. You’re great, aren’t you?”
“Dada! Fannnn!”
“His outfit,” she said. “How on earth—”
Only then did I see. Something was amiss with
Patrick’s snap-on one-piece, or “onesie” as we
manly dads like to call it. His chubby thighs, I now
realized, were squeezed into the armholes, which
were so tight they must have been cutting off his
182 John Grogan
circulation. The collared neck hung between his
legs like an udder. Up top, Patrick’s head stuck
out through the unsnapped crotch, and his arms
were lost somewhere in the billowing pant legs. It
was quite a look.
“You goof,” she said. “You’ve got it on him upside
down.”
“That’s your opinion,” I said.
But the game was up. Jenny began working the
phone from her hospital bed, and a couple of days
later my sweet, dear aunt Anita, a retired nurse
who had come to America from Ireland as a
teenager and now lived across the state from us,
magically appeared, suitcase in hand, and cheerfully
went about restoring order. The Bachelor
Rules were history.
When her doctors finally let Jenny come home, it
was with the strictest of orders. If she wanted to
deliver a healthy baby, she was to remain in bed, as
still as possible. The only time she was allowed on
her feet was to go to the bathroom. She could take
one quick shower a day, then back into bed. No
cooking, no changing diapers, no walking out for
the mail, no lifting anything heavier than a
toothbrush—and that meant her baby, a stipulation
that nearly killed her. Complete bed rest, no
Marley & Me 183
cheating. Jenny’s doctors had successfully shut
down the early labor; their goal now was to keep it
shut down for the next twelve weeks minimum.
By then the baby would be thirty-five weeks
along, still a little puny but fully developed and
able to meet the outside world on its own terms.
That meant keeping Jenny as still as a glacier. Aunt
Anita, bless her charitable soul, settled in for the
long haul. Marley was tickled to have a new playmate.
Pretty soon he had Aunt Anita trained, too,
to turn on the bathtub faucet for him.
A hospital technician came to our home and inserted
a catheter into Jenny’s thigh; this she attached
to a small battery-powered pump that
strapped to Jenny’s leg and delivered a continuous
trickle of labor-inhibiting drugs into her bloodstream.
As if that weren’t enough, she rigged
Jenny with a monitoring system that looked like a
torture device—an oversized suction cup attached
to a tangle of wires that hooked into the telephone.
The suction cup attached to Jenny’s belly
with an elastic band and registered the baby’s
heartbeat and any contractions, sending them via
phone line three times a day to a nurse who
watched for the first hint of trouble. I ran down to
the bookstore and returned with a small fortune in
reading materials, which Jenny devoured in the
first three days. She was trying to keep her spirits
184 John Grogan
up, but the boredom, the tedium, the hourly uncertainty
about the health of her unborn child,
were conspiring to drag her down. Worst of all,
she was a mother with a fifteen-month-old son
whom she was not allowed to lift, to run to, to feed
when he was hungry, to bathe when he was dirty,
to scoop up and kiss when he was sad. I would
drop him on top of her on the bed, where he
would pull her hair and stick his fingers into her
mouth. He’d point to the whirling paddles above
the bed, and say, “Mama! Fannnnn!” It made her
smile, but it wasn’t the same. She was slowly going
stir-crazy.
Her constant companion through it all, of
course, was Marley. He set up camp on the floor
beside her, surrounding himself with a wide assortment
of chew toys and rawhide bones just in
case Jenny changed her mind and decided to jump
out of bed and engage in a little spur-of-themoment
tug-of-war. There he held vigil, day and
night. I would come home from work and find
Aunt Anita in the kitchen cooking dinner, Patrick
in his bouncy seat beside her. Then I would walk
into the bedroom to find Marley standing beside
the bed, chin on the mattress, tail wagging, nose
nuzzled into Jenny’s neck as she read or snoozed
or merely stared at the ceiling, her arm draped
over his back. I marked off each day on the calenMarley
& Me 185
dar to help her track her progress, but it only
served as a reminder of how slowly each minute,
each hour, passed. Some people are content to
spend their lives in idle recline; Jenny was not one
of them. She was born to bustle, and the forced
idleness dragged her down by imperceptible degrees,
a little more each day. She was like a sailor
caught in the doldrums, waiting with increasing
desperation for the faintest hint of a breeze to fill
the sails and let the journey continue. I tried to be
encouraging, saying things like “A year from now
we’re going to look back on this and laugh,” but I
could tell part of her was slipping from me. Some
days her eyes were very far away.
When Jenny had a full month of bed rest still to
go, Aunt Anita packed her suitcase and kissed us
good-bye. She had stayed as long as she could, in
fact extending her visit several times, but she had
a husband at home who she only half jokingly
fretted was quite possibly turning feral as he survived
alone on TV dinners and ESPN. Once again,
we were on our own.
I did my best to keep the ship afloat, rising at
dawn to bathe and dress Patrick, feed him oatmeal
and pureed carrots, and take him and Marley for
at least a short walk. Then I would drop Patrick at
186 John Grogan
Sandy’s house for the day while I worked, picking
him up again in the evening. I would come home
on my lunch hour to make Jenny her lunch, bring
her the mail—the highlight of her day—throw
sticks to Marley, and straighten up the house,
which was slowly taking on a patina of neglect.
The grass went uncut, the laundry unwashed, and
the screen on the back porch remained unrepaired
after Marley crashed through it, cartoon-style, in
pursuit of a squirrel. For weeks the shredded
screen flapped in the breeze, becoming a de facto
doggie door that allowed Marley to come and go as
he pleased between the backyard and house during
the long hours home alone with the bedridden
Jenny. “I’m going to fix it,” I promised her. “It’s
on the list.” But I could see dismay in her eyes. It
took all of her self-control not to jump out of bed
and whip her home back into shape. I groceryshopped
after Patrick was asleep for the night,
sometimes walking the aisles at midnight. We survived
on carry-outs, Cheerios, and pots of pasta.
The journal I had faithfully kept for years
abruptly went silent. There was simply no time
and less energy. In the last brief entry, I wrote
only: “Life is a little overwhelming right now.”
Then one day, as we approached Jenny’s thirtyfifth
week of pregnancy, the hospital technician
arrived at our door and said, “Congratulations,
Marley & Me 187
girl, you’ve made it. You’re free again.” She unhooked
the medicine pump, removed the catheter,
packed up the fetal monitor, and went over the
doctor’s written orders. Jenny was free to return
to her regular lifestyle. No restrictions. No more
medications. We could even have sex again. The
baby was fully viable now. Labor would come
when it would come. “Have fun,” she said. “You
deserve it.”
Jenny tossed Patrick over her head, romped
with Marley in the backyard, tore into the housework.
That night we celebrated by going out for
Indian food and catching a show at a local comedy
club. The next day the three of us continued the
festivities by having lunch at a Greek restaurant.
Before the gyros ever made it to our table, however,
Jenny was in full-blown labor. The cramps
had begun the night before as she ate curried
lamb, but she had ignored them. She wasn’t going
to let a few contractions interrupt her hard-earned
night on the town. Now each contraction nearly
doubled her over. We raced home, where Sandy
was on standby to take Patrick and keep an eye on
Marley. Jenny waited in the car, puffing her way
through the pain with sharp, shallow breaths as I
grabbed her overnight bag. By the time we got to
the hospital and checked into a room, Jenny was
dilated to seven centimeters. Less than an hour
188 John Grogan
later, I held our new son in my arms. Jenny
counted his fingers and toes. His eyes were open
and alert, his cheeks blushed.
“You did it,” Dr. Sherman declared. “He’s
perfect.”
Conor Richard Grogan, five pounds and thirteen
ounces, was born October 10, 1993. I was so
happy I barely gave a second thought to the cruel
irony that for this pregnancy we had rated one of
the luxury suites but had hardly a moment to enjoy
it. If the delivery had been any quicker, Jenny
would have given birth in the parking lot of the
Texaco station. I hadn’t even had time to stretch
out on the Dad Couch.
Considering what we had been through to bring
him safely into this world, we thought the birth of
our son was big news—but not so big that the local
news media would turn out for it. Below our
window, though, a crush of television news trucks
gathered in the parking lot, their satellite dishes
poking into the sky. I could see reporters with microphones
doing their stand-ups in front of the
cameras. “Hey, honey,” I said, “the paparazzi
have turned out for you.”
A nurse, who was in the room attending to the
baby, said, “Can you believe it? Donald Trump is
right down the hall.”
Marley & Me 189
“Donald Trump?” Jenny asked. “I didn’t know
he was pregnant.”
The real estate tycoon had caused quite a stir
when he moved to Palm Beach several years earlier,
setting up house in the sprawling former
mansion of Marjorie Merriweather Post, the late
cereal heiress. The estate was named Mar-a-Lago,
meaning “Sea to Lake,” and as the name implied,
the property stretched for seventeen acres from
the Atlantic Ocean to the Intracoastal Waterway
and included a nine-hole golf course. From the
foot of our street we could look across the water
and see the fifty-eight-bedroom mansion’s
Moorish-influenced spires rising above the palm
trees. The Trumps and the Grogans were practically
neighbors.
I flicked on the TV and learned that The Donald
and girlfriend Marla Maples were the proud
parents of a girl, appropriately named Tiffany,
who was born not long after Jenny delivered
Conor. “We’ll have to invite them over for a playdate,”
Jenny said.
We watched from the window as the television
crews swarmed in to catch the Trumps leaving the
hospital with their new baby to return to their estate.
Marla smiled demurely as she held her newborn
for the cameras to capture; Donald waved
190 John Grogan
and gave a jaunty wink. “I feel great!” he told the
cameras. Then they were off in a chauffeured
limousine.
The next morning when our turn came to leave for
home, a pleasant retiree who volunteered at the
hospital guided Jenny and baby Conor through the
lobby in a wheelchair and out the automatic doors
into the sunshine. There were no camera crews,
no satellite trucks, no sound bites, no live reports.
It was just us and our senior volunteer. Not that
anyone was asking, but I felt great, too. Donald
Trump was not the only one bursting with pride
over his progeny.
The volunteer waited with Jenny and the baby
while I pulled the car up to the curb. Before buckling
my newborn son into his car seat, I lifted him
high above my head for the whole world to see,
had anyone been looking, and said, “Conor Grogan,
you are every bit as special as Tiffany Trump,
and don’t you ever forget it.”
C H A P T E R 1 5
A Postpartum Ultimatum
?
These should have been the happiest days of
our lives, and in many ways they were. We
had two sons now, a toddler and a newborn, just
seventeen months apart. The joy they brought us
was profound. Yet the darkness that had descended
over Jenny while she was on forced bed
rest persisted. Some weeks she was fine, cheerfully
tackling the challenges of being responsible for
two lives completely dependent on her for every
need. Other weeks, without warning, she would
turn glum and defeated, locked in a blue fog that
sometimes would not lift for days. We were both
exhausted and sleep deprived. Patrick was still
waking us at least once in the night, and Conor
was up several more times, crying to be nursed or
changed. Seldom did we get more than two hours
of uninterrupted sleep at a stretch. Some nights
192 John Grogan
we were like zombies, moving silently past each
other with glazed eyes, Jenny to one baby and I to
the other. We were up at midnight and at two and
at three-thirty and again at five. Then the sun
would rise and with it another day, bringing renewed
hope and a bone-aching weariness as we
began the cycle over again. From down the hall
would come Patrick’s sweet, cheery, wide-awake
voice—“Mama! Dada! Fannnn!”—and as much as
we tried to will it otherwise, we knew sleep, what
there had been of it, was behind us for another
day. I began making the coffee stronger and showing
up at work with shirts wrinkled and baby spitup
on my ties. One morning in my newsroom, I
caught the young, attractive editorial assistant
staring intently at me. Flattered, I smiled at her.
Hey, I might be a dad twice over now, but the
women still notice me. Then she said, “Do you
know you have a Barney sticker in your hair?”
Complicating the sleep-deprived chaos that was
our lives, our new baby had us terribly worried.
Already underweight, Conor was unable to keep
nourishment down. Jenny was on a single-minded
quest to nurse him to robust health, and he
seemed equally intent on foiling her. She would
offer him her breast, and he would oblige her,
suckling hungrily. Then, in one quick heave, he
would throw it all up. She would nurse him again;
Marley & Me 193
he would eat ravenously, then empty his stomach
yet again. Projectile vomiting became an hourly
occurrence in our lives. Over and over the routine
repeated itself, each time Jenny becoming more
frantic. The doctors diagnosed reflux and referred
us to a specialist, who sedated our baby boy and
snaked a scope down his throat to scrutinize his
insides. Conor eventually would outgrow the condition
and catch up on his weight, but for four
long months we were consumed with worry over
him. Jenny was a basket case of fear and stress and
frustration, all exacerbated by lack of sleep, as she
nursed him nearly nonstop and then watched
helpless as he tossed her milk back at her. “I feel
so inadequate,” she would say. “Moms are supposed
to be able to give their babies everything
they need.” Her fuse was as short as I had seen it,
and the smallest infractions—a cupboard door left
open, crumbs on the counter—would set her off.
The good news was that Jenny never once took
out her anxiety on either baby. In fact, she nurtured
both of them with almost obsessive care and
patience. She poured every ounce of herself into
them. The bad news was that she directed her
frustration and anger at me and even more at Marley.
She had lost all patience with him. He was
squarely in her crosshairs and could do no right.
Each transgression—and there continued to be
194 John Grogan
many—pushed Jenny a little closer to the edge.
Oblivious, Marley stayed the course with his antics
and misdeeds and boundless ebullience. I bought a
flowering shrub and planted it in the garden to
commemorate Conor’s birth; Marley pulled it out
by the roots the same day and chewed it into
mulch. I finally got around to replacing the ripped
porch screen, and Marley, by now quite accustomed
to his self-made doggie door, promptly
dove through it again. He escaped one day and
when he finally returned, he had a pair of women’s
panties in his teeth. I didn’t want to know.
Despite the prescription tranquilizers, which
Jenny was feeding him with increasing frequency,
more for her sake than for his, Marley’s thunder
phobia grew more intense and irrational each day.
By now a soft shower would send him into a panic.
If we were home, he would merely glom on to us
and salivate nervously all over our clothes. If we
weren’t home, he sought safety in the same
warped way, by digging and gouging through
doors and plaster and linoleum. The more I repaired,
the more he destroyed. I could not keep up
with him. I should have been furious, but Jenny
was angry enough for both of us. Instead, I started
covering for him. If I found a chewed shoe or
book or pillow, I hid the evidence before she could
find it. When he crashed through our small home,
Marley & Me 195
the bull in our china closet, I followed behind him,
straightening throw rugs, righting coffee tables,
and wiping up the spittle he flung on the walls.
Before Jenny discovered them, I would race to
vacuum up the wood chips in the garage where he
had gouged the door once again. I stayed up late
into the night patching and sanding so by morning
when Jenny awoke the latest damage would be
covered over. “For God’s sake, Marley, do you
have a death wish?” I said to him one night as he
stood at my side, tail wagging, licking my ear as I
knelt and repaired the most recent destruction.
“You’ve got to stop this.”
It was into this volatile environment that I
walked one evening. I opened the front door to
find Jenny beating Marley with her fists. She was
crying uncontrollably and flailing wildly at him,
more like she was pounding a kettledrum than imposing
a beating, landing glancing blows on his
back and shoulders and neck. “Why? Why do you
do this?” she screamed at him. “Why do you
wreck everything?” In that instant I saw what he
had done. The couch cushion was gouged open,
the fabric shredded and the stuffing pulled out.
Marley stood with head down and legs splayed as
though leaning into a hurricane. He didn’t try to
flee or dodge the blows; he just stood there and
took each one without whimper or complaint.
196 John Grogan
“Hey! Hey! Hey!” I shouted, grabbing her
wrists. “Come on. Stop. Stop!” She was sobbing
and gasping for breath. “Stop,” I repeated.
I stepped between her and Marley and shoved
my face directly in front of hers. It was like a
stranger was staring back at me. I did not recognize
the look in her eyes. “Get him out of here,”
she said, her voice flat and tinged with a quiet
burn. “Get him out of here now.”
“Okay, I’ll take him out,” I said, “but you settle
down.”
“Get him out of here and keep him out of
here,” she said in an unsettling monotone.
I opened the front door and he bounded outside,
and when I turned back to grab his leash off
the table, Jenny said, “I mean it. I want him gone.
I want him out of here for good.”
“Come on,” I said. “You don’t mean that.”
“I mean it,” she said. “I’m done with that dog.
You find him a new home, or I will.”
She couldn’t mean it. She loved this dog. She
adored him despite his laundry list of shortcomings.
She was upset; she was stressed to the breaking
point. She would reconsider. For the moment I
thought it was best to give her time to cool down.
I walked out the door without another word. In
the front yard, Marley raced around, jumping into
the air and snapping his jaws, trying to bite the
Marley & Me 197
leash out of my hand. He was his old jolly self, apparently
no worse for the pummeling. I knew she
hadn’t hurt him. In all honesty, I routinely
whacked him much harder when I played rough
with him, and he loved it, always bounding back
for more. As was a hallmark of his breed, he was
immune to pain, an unstoppable machine of muscle
and sinew. Once when I was in the driveway
washing the car, he jammed his head into the
bucket of soapy water and galloped blindly off
across the front lawns with the bucket firmly stuck
over his head, not stopping until he crashed full
force into a concrete wall. It didn’t seem to faze
him. But slap him lightly on the rump with an
open palm in anger, or even just speak to him with
a stern voice, and he acted deeply wounded. For
the big dense oaf that he was, Marley had an incredibly
sensitive streak. Jenny hadn’t hurt him
physically, not even close, but she had crushed his
feelings, at least for the moment. Jenny was everything
to him, one of his two best pals in the whole
world, and she had just turned on him. She was his
mistress and he her faithful companion. If she saw
fit to strike him, he saw fit to suck it up and take it.
As far as dogs went, he was not good at much; but
he was unquestionably loyal. It was my job now to
repair the damage and make things right again.
Out in the street, I hooked him to his leash and
198 John Grogan
ordered, “Sit!” He sat. I pulled the choker chain
up high on his throat in preparation for our walk.
Before I stepped off I ran my hand over his head
and massaged his neck. He flipped his nose in the
air and looked up at me, his tongue hanging
halfway down his neck. The incident with Jenny
appeared to be behind him; now I hoped it would
be behind her, as well. “What am I going to do
with you, you big dope?” I asked him. He leaped
straight up, as though outfitted with springs, and
smashed his tongue against my lips.
Marley and I walked for miles that evening, and
when I finally opened the front door, he was exhausted
and ready to collapse quietly in the corner.
Jenny was feeding Patrick a jar of baby food
as she cradled Conor in her lap. She was calm and
appeared back to her old self. I unleashed Marley
and he took a huge drink, lapping lustily at the
water, sloshing little tidal waves over the side of
his bowl. I toweled up the floor and stole a glance
in Jenny’s direction; she appeared unperturbed.
Maybe the horrible moment had passed. Maybe
she had reconsidered. Maybe she felt sheepish
about her outburst and was searching for the
words to apologize. As I walked past her, Marley
close at my heels, she said in a calm, quiet voice
without looking at me, “I’m dead serious. I want
him out of here.”
Marley & Me 199
? ? ?
Over the next several days she repeated the ultimatum
enough times that I finally accepted that
this was not an idle threat. She wasn’t just blowing
off steam, and the issue was not going away. I was
sick about it. As pathetic as it sounds, Marley had
become my male-bonding soul mate, my nearconstant
companion, my friend. He was the
undisciplined, recalcitrant, nonconformist, politically
incorrect free spirit I had always wanted to
be, had I been brave enough, and I took vicarious
joy in his unbridled verve. No matter how complicated
life became, he reminded me of its simple
joys. No matter how many demands were placed
on me, he never let me forget that willful disobedience
is sometimes worth the price. In a world
full of bosses, he was his own master. The thought
of giving him up seared my soul. But I had two
children to worry about now and a wife whom we
needed. Our household was being held together
by the most tenuous of threads. If losing Marley
made the difference between meltdown and stability,
how could I not honor Jenny’s wishes?
I began putting out feelers, discreetly asking
friends and coworkers if they might be interested
in taking on a lovable and lively two-year-old
Labrador retriever. Through word of mouth, I
200 John Grogan
learned of a neighbor who adored dogs and
couldn’t refuse a canine in need. Even he said no.
Unfortunately, Marley’s reputation preceded him.
Each morning I opened the newspaper to the
classifieds as if I might find some miracle ad:
“Seeking wildly energetic, out-of-control
Labrador retriever with multiple phobias. Destructive
qualities a plus. Will pay top dollar.”
What I found instead was a booming trade in
young adult dogs that, for whatever reason, had
not worked out. Many were purebreds that their
owners had spent several hundred dollars for just
months earlier. Now they were being offered for a
pittance or even for free. An alarming number of
the unwanted dogs were male Labs.
The ads were in almost every day, and were at
once heartbreaking and hilarious. From my insider’s
vantage point, I recognized the attempts to
gloss over the real reasons these dogs were back on
the market. The ads were full of sunny euphemisms
for the types of behavior I knew all too
well. “Lively . . . loves people . . . needs big
yard . . . needs room to run . . . energetic . . .
spirited . . . powerful . . . one of a kind.” It all
added up to the same thing: a dog its master could
not control. A dog that had become a liability. A
dog its owner had given up on.
Part of me laughed knowingly; the ads were
Marley & Me 201
comical in their deception. When I read “fiercely
loyal” I knew the seller really meant “known to
bite.” “Constant companion” meant “suffers separation
anxiety,” and “good watchdog” translated
to “incessant barker.” And when I saw “best offer,”
I knew too well that the desperate owner really
was asking, “How much do I need to pay you
to take this thing off my hands?” Part of me ached
with sadness. I was not a quitter; I did not believe
Jenny was a quitter, either. We were not the kind
of people who pawned off our problems in the
classifieds. Marley was undeniably a handful. He
was nothing like the stately dogs both of us had
grown up with. He had a host of bad habits and
behaviors. Guilty as charged. He also had come a
great distance from the spastic puppy we had
brought home two years earlier. In his own flawed
way, he was trying. Part of our journey as his
owners was to mold him to our needs, but part
also was to accept him for what he was. Not just to
accept him, but to celebrate him and his indomitable
canine spirit. We had brought into our
home a living, breathing being, not a fashion accessory
to prop in the corner. For better or worse,
he was our dog. He was a part of our family, and,
for all his flaws, he had returned our affection one
hundredfold. Devotion such as his could not be
bought for any price.
202 John Grogan
I was not ready to give up on him.
Even as I continued to make halfhearted inquiries
about finding Marley a new home, I began
working with him in earnest. My own private
Mission: Impossible was to rehabilitate this dog
and prove to Jenny he was worthy. Interrupted
sleep be damned, I began rising at dawn, buckling
Patrick into the jogging stroller, and heading down
to the water to put Marley through the paces. Sit.
Stay. Down. Heel. Over and over we practiced.
There was a desperation to my mission, and Marley
seemed to sense it. The stakes were different
now; this was for real. In case he didn’t fully understand
that, I spelled it out for him more than
once without mincing words: “We’re not screwing
around here, Marley. This is it. Let’s go.” And I
would put him through the commands again, with
my helper Patrick clapping and calling to his big
yellow friend, “Waddy! Hee-O!”
By the time I reenrolled Marley in obedience
school, he was a different dog from the juvenile
delinquent I had first shown up with. Yes, still as
wild as a boar, but this time he knew I was the boss
and he was the underling. This time there would
be no lunges toward other dogs (or at least not
many), no out-of-control surges across the tarmac,
no crashing into strangers’ crotches.
Through eight weekly sessions, I marched him
Marley & Me 203
through the commands on a tight leash, and he
was happy—make that overjoyed—to cooperate.
At our final meeting, the trainer—a relaxed
woman who was the antithesis of Miss
Dominatrix—called us forward. “Okay,” she said,
“show us what you’ve got.”
I ordered Marley into a sit position, and he
dropped neatly to his haunches. I raised the
choker chain high around his throat and with a
crisp tug of the lead ordered him to heel. We trotted
across the parking lot and back, Marley at my
side, his shoulder brushing my calf, just as the
book said it should. I ordered him to sit again, and
I stood directly in front of him and pointed my
finger at his forehead. “Stay,” I said calmly, and
with the other hand I dropped his leash. I stepped
backward several paces. His big brown eyes fixed
on me, waiting for any small sign from me to release
him, but he remained anchored. I walked in a
360-degree circle around him. He quivered with
excitement and tried to rotate his head, Linda
Blair–style, to watch me, but he did not budge.
When I was back in front of him, just for kicks, I
snapped my fingers and yelled, “Incoming!” He
hit the deck like he was storming Iwo Jima. The
teacher burst out laughing, a good sign. I turned
my back on him and walked thirty feet away. I
could feel his eyes burning into my back, but he
204 John Grogan
held fast. He was quaking violently by the time I
turned around to face him. The volcano was getting
ready to blow. Then, spreading my feet into a
wide boxer’s stance in anticipation of what was
coming, I said, “Marley . . .” I let his name hang
in the air for a few seconds. “Come!” He shot at
me with everything he had, and I braced for impact.
At the last instant I deftly sidestepped him
with a bullfighter’s grace, and he blasted past me,
then circled back and goosed me from behind with
his nose.
“Good boy, Marley,” I gushed, dropping to my
knees. “Good, good, good boy! You a good boy!”
He danced around me like we had just conquered
Mount Everest together.
At the end of the evening, the instructor called
us up and handed us our diploma. Marley had
passed basic obedience training, ranking seventh
in the class. So what if it was a class of eight and
the eighth dog was a psychopathic pit bull that
seemed intent on taking a human life at the first
opportunity? I would take it. Marley, my incorrigible,
untrainable, undisciplined dog, had passed.
I was so proud I could have cried, and in fact I actually
might have had Marley not leapt up and
promptly eaten his diploma.
On the way home, I sang “We Are the Champions”
at the top of my lungs. Marley, sensing my
Marley & Me 205
joy and pride, stuck his tongue in my ear. For
once, I didn’t even mind.
There was still one piece of unfinished business
between Marley and me. I needed to break him of
his worst habit of all: jumping on people. It didn’t
matter if it was a friend or a stranger, a child or an
adult, the meter reader or the UPS driver. Marley
greeted them the same way—by charging at them
full speed, sliding across the floor, leaping up, and
planting his two front paws on the person’s chest
or shoulders as he licked their face. What had
been cute when he was a cuddly puppy had turned
obnoxious, even terrifying for some recipients of
his uninvited advances. He had knocked over children,
startled guests, dirtied our friends’ dress
shirts and blouses, and nearly taken down my frail
mother. No one appreciated it. I had tried without
success to break him of jumping up, using standard
dog-obedience techniques. The message was
not getting through. Then a veteran dog owner I
respected said, “You want to break him of that,
give him a swift knee in the chest next time he
jumps up on you.”
“I don’t want to hurt him,” I said.
“You won’t hurt him. A few good jabs with your
knee, and I guarantee you he’ll be done jumping.”
206 John Grogan
It was tough-love time. Marley had to reform or
relocate. The next night when I arrived home
from work, I stepped in the front door and yelled,
“I’m home!” As usual, Marley came barreling
across the wood floors to greet me. He slid the last
ten feet as though on ice, then lifted off to smash
his paws into my chest and slurp at my face. Just as
his paws made contact with me, I gave one swift
pump of my knee, connecting in the soft spot just
below his rib cage. He gasped slightly and slid
down to the floor, looking up at me with a
wounded expression, trying to figure out what had
gotten into me. He had been jumping on me his
whole life; what was with the sudden sneak attack?
The next night I repeated the punishment. He
leapt, I kneed, he dropped to the floor, coughing. I
felt a little cruel, but if I were going to save him
from the classifieds, I knew I had to drive home
the point. “Sorry, guy,” I said, leaning down so he
could lick me with all four paws on the ground.
“It’s for your own good.”
The third night when I walked in, he came
charging around the corner, going into his typical
high-speed skid as he approached. This time,
however, he altered the routine. Instead of leaping,
he kept his paws on the ground and crashed
headfirst into my knees, nearly knocking me over.
I’d take that as a victory. “You did it, Marley! You
Marley & Me 207
did it! Good boy! You didn’t jump up.” And I got
on my knees so he could slobber me without risking
a sucker punch. I was impressed. Marley had
bent to the power of persuasion.
The problem was not exactly solved, however.
He may have been cured of jumping on me, but he
was not cured of jumping on anyone else. The dog
was smart enough to figure out that only I posed a
threat, and he could still jump on the rest of the
human race with impunity. I needed to widen my
offensive, and to do that I recruited a good friend
of mine from work, a reporter named Jim Tolpin.
Jim was a mild-mannered, bookish sort, balding,
bespectacled, and of slight build. If there was
anyone Marley thought he could jump up on without
consequence, it was Jim. At the office one day
I laid out the plan. He was to come to the house
after work, ring the doorbell, and then walk in.
When Marley jumped up to kiss him, he was to
give him all he had. “Don’t be shy about it,” I
coached. “Subtlety is lost on Marley.”
That night Jim rang the bell and walked in the
door. Sure enough, Marley took the bait and raced
at him, ears flying back. When Marley left the
ground to leap up on him, Jim took my advice to
heart. Apparently worried he would be too timid,
he dealt a withering blow with his knee to Marley’s
solar plexus, knocking the wind out of him.
208 John Grogan
The thud was audible across the room. Marley let
out a loud moan, went bug-eyed, and sprawled on
the floor.
“Jesus, Jim,” I said. “Have you been studying
kung fu?”
“You told me to make him feel it,” he answered.
He had. Marley got to his feet, caught his
breath, and greeted Jim the way a dog should—on
all four paws. If he could have talked, I swear he
would have cried uncle. Marley never again
jumped up on anyone, at least not in my presence,
and no one ever kneed him in the chest or anywhere
else again.
One morning, not long after Marley abandoned
his jumping habit, I woke up and my wife was
back. My Jenny, the woman I loved who had disappeared
into that unyielding blue fog, had returned
to me. As suddenly as the postpartum
depression had swept over her, it swept away
again. It was as if she had been exorcised of her
demons. They were gone. Blessedly gone. She was
strong, she was upbeat, she was not only coping as
a young mother of two, but thriving. Marley was
back in her good graces, safely on solid ground.
With a baby in each arm, she leaned to kiss him.
She threw him sticks and made him gravy from
Marley & Me 209
hamburger drippings. She danced him around the
room when a good song came on the stereo. Sometimes
at night when he was calm, I would find her
lying on the floor with him, her head resting on his
neck. Jenny was back. Thank God, she was back.

C H A P T E R 1 6
The Audition
?
Some things in life are just too bizarre to be
anything but true, so when Jenny called me at
the office to tell me Marley was getting a film audition,
I knew she couldn’t be making it up. Still, I
was in disbelief. “A what?” I asked.
“A film audition.”
“Like for a movie?”
“Yes, like for a movie, dumbo,” she said. “A
feature-length movie.”
“Marley? A feature-length movie?”
We went on like this for some time as I tried to
reconcile the image of our lug-head chewer of
ironing boards with the image of a proud successor
to Rin Tin Tin leaping across the silver screen,
pulling helpless children from burning buildings.
“Our Marley?” I asked one more time, just to
be sure.
212 John Grogan
It was true. A week earlier, Jenny’s supervisor at
the Palm Beach Post called and said she had a
friend who needed to ask a favor of us. The friend
was a local photographer named Colleen McGarr
who had been hired by a New York City filmproduction
company called the Shooting Gallery
to help with a movie they planned to make in Lake
Worth, the town just south of us. Colleen’s job
was to find a “quintessential South Florida household”
and photograph it top to bottom—the
bookshelves, the refrigerator magnets, the closets,
you name it—to help the directors bring realism to
the film.
“The whole set crew is gay,” Jenny’s boss told
her. “They’re trying to figure out how married
couples with kids live around here.”
“Sort of like an anthropological case study,”
Jenny said.
“Exactly.”
“Sure,” Jenny agreed, “as long as I don’t have to
clean first.”
Colleen came over and started photographing,
not just our possessions but us, too. The way we
dressed, the way we wore our hair, the way we
slouched on the couch. She photographed toothbrushes
on the sink. She photographed the babies
in their cribs. She photographed the quintessentially
heterosexual couple’s eunuch dog, too. Or at
Marley & Me 213
least what she could catch of him on film. As she
observed, “He’s a bit of a blur.”
Marley could not have been more thrilled to
participate. Ever since babies had invaded, Marley
took his affection where he could find it. Colleen
could have jabbed him with a cattle prod; as long
as he was getting some attention, he was okay with
it. Colleen, being a lover of large animals and not
intimidated by saliva showers, gave him plenty,
dropping to her knees to wrestle with him.
As Colleen clicked away, I couldn’t help thinking
of the possibilities. Not only were we supplying
raw anthropological data to the filmmakers, we
were essentially being given our own personal
casting call. I had heard that most of the secondary
actors and all of the extras for this film would
be hired locally. What if the director spotted a
natural star amid the kitchen magnets and poster
art? Stranger things had happened.
I could just picture the director, who in my fantasy
looked a lot like Steven Spielberg, bent over a
large table scattered with hundreds of photographs.
He flips impatiently through them, muttering,
“Garbage! Garbage! This just won’t do.” Then
he freezes over a single snapshot. In it a rugged yet
sensitive, quintessentially heterosexual male goes
about his family-man business. The director stubs
his finger heavily into the photo and shouts to his
214 John Grogan
assistants, “Get me this man! I must have him for
my film!” When they finally track me down, I at
first humbly demur before finally agreeing to take
the starring role. After all, the show must go on.
Colleen thanked us for opening our home to her
and left. She gave us no reason to believe she or
anyone else associated with the movie would be
calling back. Our duty was now fulfilled. But a
few days later when Jenny called me at work to say,
“I just got off the phone with Colleen McGarr,
and you are NOT going to believe it,” I had no
doubt whatsoever that I had just been discovered.
My heart leapt. “Go on,” I said.
“She says the director wants Marley to try out.”
“Marley?” I asked, certain I had misheard. She
didn’t seem to notice the dismay in my voice.
“Apparently, he’s looking for a big, dumb, loopy
dog to play the role of the family pet, and Marley
caught his eye.”
“Loopy?” I asked.
“That’s what Colleen says he wants. Big, dumb,
and loopy.”
Well, he had certainly come to the right place.
“Did Colleen mention if he said anything about
me?” I asked.
“No,” Jenny said. “Why would he?”
Colleen picked Marley up the next day. Knowing
the importance of a good entrance, he came
Marley & Me 215
racing through the living room to greet her at full
bore, pausing only long enough to grab the nearest
pillow in his teeth because you never knew when a
busy film director might need a quick nap, and if
he did, Marley wanted to be ready.
When he hit the wood floor, he flew into a full
skid, which did not stop until he hit the coffee
table, went airborne, crashed into a chair, landed
on his back, rolled, righted himself, and collided
head-on with Colleen’s legs. At least he didn’t
jump up, I noted.
“Are you sure you don’t want us to sedate him?”
Jenny asked.
The director would want to see him in his unbridled,
unmedicated state, Colleen insisted, and
off she went with our desperately happy dog beside
her in her red pickup truck.
Two hours later Colleen and Company were
back and the verdict was in: Marley had passed the
audition. “Oh, shut up!” Jenny shrieked. “No
way!” Our elation was not dampened a bit when
Colleen told us Marley was the only one up for the
part. Nor when she broke the news that his would
be the only nonpaying role in the movie.
I asked her how the audition went.
“I got Marley in the car and it was like driving
in a Jacuzzi,” she said. “He was slobbering on
everything. By the time I got him there, I was
216 John Grogan
drenched.” When they arrived at production
headquarters at the GulfStream Hotel, a faded
tourist landmark from an earlier era overlooking
the Intracoastal Waterway, Marley immediately
impressed the crew by jumping out of the truck
and tearing around the parking lot in random patterns
as if expecting the aerial bombing to commence
at any moment. “He was just berserk,” she
recounted, “completely mental.”
“Yeah, he gets a little excited,” I said.
At one point, she said, Marley grabbed the
checkbook out of a crew member’s hand and
raced away, running a series of tight figure-eights
to nowhere, apparently determined this was one
way to guarantee a paycheck.
“We call him our Labrador evader,” Jenny apologized
with the kind of smile only a proud mother
can give.
Marley eventually calmed down enough to convince
everyone he could do the part, which was
basically to just play himself. The movie was
called The Last Home Run, a baseball fantasy in
which a seventy-nine-year-old nursing home resident
becomes a twelve-year-old for five days to
live his dream of playing Little League ball. Marley
was cast as the hyperactive family dog of the
Little League coach, played by retired majorleague
catcher Gary Carter.
Marley & Me 217
“They really want him to be in their movie?” I
asked, still incredulous.
“Everyone loved him,” Colleen said. “He’s
perfect.”
In the days leading up to shooting, we noticed a
certain subtle change in Marley’s bearing. A
strange calm had come over him. It was as if passing
the audition had given him new confidence.
He was almost regal. “Maybe he just needed
someone to believe in him,” I told Jenny.
If anyone believed, it was her, Stage Mom Extraordinaire.
As the first day of filming approached,
she bathed him. She brushed him. She
clipped his nails and swabbed out his ears.
On the morning shooting was to begin, I walked
out of the bedroom to find Jenny and Marley tangled
together as if locked in mortal combat,
bouncing across the room. She was straddling him
with her knees tightly hugging his ribs and one
hand grasping the end of his choker chain as he
bucked and lurched. It was like having a rodeo
right in my own living room. “What in God’s
name are you doing?” I asked.
“What’s it look like?” she shot back. “Brushing
his teeth!”
Sure enough, she had a toothbrush in the other
hand and was doing her best to scrub his big white
ivories as Marley, frothing prodigiously at the
218 John Grogan
mouth, did his best to eat the toothbrush. He
looked positively rabid.
“Are you using toothpaste?” I asked, which of
course begged the bigger question, “And how exactly
do you propose getting him to spit it out?”
“Baking soda,” she answered.
“Thank God,” I said. “So it’s not rabies?”
An hour later we left for the GulfStream Hotel,
the boys in their car seats and Marley between
them, panting away with uncharacteristically fresh
breath. Our instructions were to arrive by 9:00
A.M., but a block away, traffic came to a standstill.
Up ahead the road was barricaded and a police officer
was diverting traffic away from the hotel.
The filming had been covered at length in the
newspapers—the biggest event to hit sleepy Lake
Worth since Body Heat was filmed there fifteen
years earlier—and a crowd of spectators had
turned out to gawk. The police were keeping
everyone away. We inched forward in traffic, and
when we finally got up to the officer I leaned out
the window and said, “We need to get through.”
“No one gets through,” he said. “Keep moving.
Let’s go.”
“We’re with the cast,” I said.
He eyed us skeptically, a couple in a minivan
with two toddlers and family pet in tow. “I said
move it!” he barked.
Marley & Me 219
“Our dog is in the film,” I said.
Suddenly he looked at me with new respect.
“You have the dog?” he asked. The dog was on his
checklist.
“I have the dog,” I said. “Marley the dog.”
“Playing himself,” Jenny chimed in.
He turned around and blew his whistle with
great fanfare. “He’s got the dog!” he shouted to a
cop a half block down. “Marley the Dog!”
And that cop in turn yelled to someone else,
“He’s got the dog! Marley the Dog’s here!”
“Let ’em through!” a third officer shouted from
the distance.
“Let ’em through!” the second cop echoed.
The officer moved the barricade and waved us
through. “Right this way,” he said politely. I felt like
royalty. As we rolled past him he said once again, as
if he couldn’t quite believe it, “He’s got the dog.”
In the parking lot outside the hotel, the film
crew was ready for action. Cables crisscrossed the
pavement; camera tripods and microphone booms
were set up. Lights hung from scaffolding. Trailers
held racks of costumes. Two large tables of food
and drinks were set up in the shade for cast and
crew. Important-looking people in sunglasses bustled
about. Director Bob Gosse greeted us and
gave us a quick rundown of the scene to come. It
was simple enough. A minivan pulls up to the
220 John Grogan
curb, Marley’s make-believe owner, played by the
actress Liza Harris, is at the wheel. Her daughter,
played by a cute teenager named Danielle from
the local performing-arts school, and son, another
local budding actor not older than nine, are in the
back with their family dog, played by Marley. The
daughter opens the sliding door and hops out; her
brother follows with Marley on a leash. They walk
off camera. End of scene.
“Easy enough,” I told the director. “He should
be able to handle that, no problem.” I pulled
Marley off to the side to wait for his cue to get
into the van.
“Okay, people, listen up,” Gosse told the crew.
“The dog’s a little nutty, all right? But unless he
completely hijacks the scene, we’re going to keep
rolling.” He explained his thinking: Marley was
the real thing—a typical family dog—and the goal
was to capture him behaving as a typical family dog
would behave on a typical family outing. No acting
or coaching; pure cinema verite. “Just let him do
his thing,” he coached, “and work around him.”
When everyone was set to go, I loaded Marley
into the van and handed his nylon leash to the little
boy, who looked terrified of him. “He’s
friendly,” I told him. “He’ll just want to lick you.
See?” I stuck my wrist into Marley’s mouth to
demonstrate.
Marley & Me 221
Take one: The van pulls to the curb. The instant
the daughter slides open the side door, a yellow
streak shoots out like a giant fur ball being fired
from a cannon and blurs past the cameras trailing
a red leash.
“Cut!”
I chased Marley down in the parking lot and
hauled him back.
“Okay, folks, we’re going to try that again,”
Gosse said. Then to the boy he coached gently, “The
dog’s pretty wild. Try to hold on tighter this time.”
Take two. The van pulls to the curb. The door
slides open. The daughter is just beginning to exit
when Marley huffs into view and leaps out past
her, this time dragging the white-knuckled and
white-faced boy behind him.
“Cut!”
Take three. The van pulls up. The door slides
open. The daughter exits. The boy exits, holding
the leash. As he steps away from the van the leash
pulls taut, stretching back inside, but no dog follows.
The boy begins to tug, heave, and pull. He
leans into it and gives it everything he has. Not a
budge. Long, painfully empty seconds pass. The
boy grimaces and looks back at the camera.
“Cut!”
I peered into the van to find Marley bent over
licking himself where no male was ever meant to
222 John Grogan
lick. He looked up at me as if to say, Can’t you see
I’m busy?
Take four: I load Marley into the back of the van
with the boy and shut the door. Before Gosse calls
“Action!” he breaks for a few minutes to confer
with his assistants. Finally, the scene rolls. The van
pulls to the curb. The door slides open. The daughter
steps out. The boy steps out, but with a bewildered
look on his face. He peers directly into the
camera and holds up his hand. Dangling from it is
half the leash, its end jagged and wet with saliva.
“Cut! Cut! Cut!”
The boy explained that as he waited in the van,
Marley began gnawing on the leash and wouldn’t
stop. The crew and cast were staring at the severed
leash in disbelief, a mix of awe and horror on their
faces as though they had just witnessed some great
and mysterious force of nature. I, on the other
hand, was not surprised in the least. Marley had
sent more leashes and ropes to their graves than I
could count; he even managed to chew his way
through a rubber-coated steel cable that was advertised
“as used in the airline industry.” Shortly after
Conor was born, Jenny came home with a new
product, a doggie travel harness that allowed her to
buckle Marley into a car seat belt so he couldn’t
wander around the moving vehicle. In the first
ninety seconds using the new device, he managed
Marley & Me 223
to chew through not only the heavy harness itself
but the shoulder strap of our brand-new minivan.
“Okay, everybody, let’s take a break!” Gosse
called out. Turning to me, he asked—in an amazingly
calm voice—“How quickly can you find a
new leash?” He didn’t have to tell me how much
each lost minute cost him as his union-scale actors
and crew sat idle.
“There’s a pet store a half mile from here,” I
said. “I can be back in fifteen minutes.”
“And this time get something he can’t chew
through,” he said.
I returned with a heavy chain leash that looked
like something a lion trainer might use, and the
filming continued, take after failed take. Each
scene was worse than the one before. At one point,
Danielle the teenage actress let out a desperate
shriek midscene and screamed with true horror in
her voice, “Oh my God! His thing is out!”
“Cut!”
In another scene, Marley was panting so loudly
at Danielle’s feet as she spoke on the telephone to
her love interest that the sound engineer flipped
off his headphones in disgust and complained
loudly, “I can’t hear a word she’s saying. All I hear
is heavy breathing. It sounds like a porn flick.”
“Cut!”
So went day 1 of shooting. Marley was a disas224
John Grogan
ter, unmitigated and without redemption. Part of
me was defensive—Well, what did they expect
for free? Benji?—and part was mortified. I selfconsciously
stole glances at the cast and crew and
could see it plainly on their faces: Where did this
animal come from, and how can we send him
back? At the end of the day one of the assistants,
clipboard in hand, told us the shooting lineup was
still undecided for the next morning. “Don’t
bother coming in tomorrow,” he said. “We’ll call
if we need Marley.” And to ensure there was no
confusion, he repeated: “So unless you hear from
us, don’t show up. Got it?” Yeah, I got it, loud and
clear. Gosse had sent his underling to do the dirty
work. Marley’s fledgling acting career was over.
Not that I could blame them. With the possible
exception of that scene in The Ten Commandments
where Charlton Heston parts the Red Sea,
Marley had presented the biggest logistical nightmare
in the history of cinema. He had caused who
knows how many thousands of dollars in needless
delays and wasted film. He had slimed countless
costumes, raided the snack table, and nearly toppled
a thirty-thousand-dollar camera. They were
cutting their losses, writing us out. It was the old
“Don’t call us, we’ll call you” routine.
“Marley,” I said when we got home, “your big
chance and you really blew it.”
Marley & Me 225
? ? ?
The next morning I was still fretting over our
dashed dreams of stardom when the phone rang.
It was the assistant, telling us to get Marley to the
hotel as soon as possible. “You mean you want him
back?” I asked.
“Right away,” he said. “Bob wants him in the
next scene.”
I arrived thirty minutes later, not quite believing
they had invited us back. Gosse was ebullient.
He had watched the raw footage from the day before
and couldn’t have been happier. “The dog
was hysterical!” he gushed. “Just hilarious. Pure
madcap genius!” I could feel myself standing
taller, chest puffing out.
“We always knew he was a natural,” Jenny said.
Shooting continued around Lake Worth for several
more days, and Marley continued to rise to
the occasion. We hovered in the wings with the
other stage parents and hangers-on, chatting, socializing,
and then falling abruptly silent whenever
the stagehand yelled, “Ready on set!” When the
word “Cut!” rang out, the party continued. Jenny
even managed to get Gary Carter and Dave Winfield,
the Baseball Hall of Fame all-star who was
making a cameo in the movie, to sign baseballs for
each of the boys.
226 John Grogan
Marley was lapping up stardom. The crew, especially
the women, fawned over him. The weather
was brutally hot, and one assistant was assigned the
exclusive duty of following Marley around with a
bowl and a bottle of spring water, pouring him
drinks at will. Everyone, it seemed, was feeding
him snacks off the buffet table. I left him with the
crew for a couple of hours while I checked in at
work, and when I returned I found him sprawled
out like King Tut, paws in the air, accepting a
leisurely belly rub from the strikingly gorgeous
makeup artist. “He’s such a lover!” she cooed.
Stardom was starting to go to my head, too. I
began introducing myself as “Marley the Dog’s
handler” and dropping lines such as “For his next
movie, we’re hoping for a barking part.” During
one break in the shooting, I walked into the hotel
lobby to use the pay phone. Marley was off his
leash and sniffing around the furniture several feet
away. A concierge, apparently mistaking my star
for a stray, intercepted him and tried to hustle him
out a side door. “Go home!” he scolded. “Shoo!”
“Excuse me?” I said, cupping my hand over the
mouthpiece of the phone and leveling the
concierge with my most withering stare. “Do you
have any idea who you’re talking to?”
We remained on the set for four straight days,
and by the time we were told Marley’s scenes were
Marley & Me 227
all completed and his services no longer needed,
Jenny and I both felt we were part of the Shooting
Gallery family. Granted, the only unpaid members
of the family, but members nonetheless. “We love
you guys!” Jenny blurted out to all within earshot
as we herded Marley into the minivan. “Can’t wait
to see the final cut!”
But wait we did. One of the producers told us to
give them eight months and then call and they’d
mail us an advance copy. After eight months when
I called, however, a front-desk person put me on
hold and returned several minutes later to say,
“Why don’t you try in another couple months?” I
waited and tried, waited and tried, but each time
was put off. I started feeling like a stalker, and I
could imagine the receptionist, hand cupped over
the phone, whispering to Gosse at the editing
table, “It’s that crazy dog guy again. What do you
want me to tell him this time?”
Eventually I stopped calling, resigned that we
would never see The Last Home Run, convinced
that no one ever would, that the project had been
abandoned on the editing-room floor on account
of the overwhelming challenges of trying to edit
that damn dog out of every scene. It would be two
full years later before I would finally get my
chance to see Marley’s acting skills.
I was in Blockbuster when on a whim I asked
228 John Grogan
the clerk if he knew anything about a movie called
The Last Home Run. Not only did he know about
it; he had it in stock. In fact, as luck would have it,
not a single copy was checked out.
Only later would I learn the whole sad story.
Unable to attract a national distributor, the Shooting
Gallery had no choice but to relegate Marley’s
movie debut to that most ignoble of celluloid
fates. The Last Home Run had gone straight to
video. I didn’t care. I raced home with a copy and
yelled to Jenny and the kids to gather round the
VCR. All told, Marley was on-screen for less than
two minutes, but I had to say they were two of the
livelier minutes in the film. We laughed! We cried!
We cheered!
“Waddy, that you!” Conor screamed.
“We’re famous!” Patrick yelled.
Marley, never one to get hung up on pretenses,
seemed unimpressed. He yawned and crawled beneath
the coffee table. By the time the end credits
rolled, he was sound asleep. We waited with
breath held as the names of all the actors of the
two-legged variety had scrolled by. For a minute, I
thought our dog was not going to merit a credit.
But then there it was, listed in big letters across
the screen for all to see: “Marley the Dog . . . As
Himself.”
C H A P T E R 1 7
In the Land of Bocahontas
?
One month after filming ended for The Last
Home Run, we said good-bye to West Palm
Beach and all the memories it held. There had
been two more murders within a block of our
home, but in the end it was clutter, not crime, that
drove us from our little bungalow on Churchill
Road. With two children and all the accoutrements
that went with them, we were packed,
quite literally, to the rafters. The house had taken
on the pallid sheen of a Toys “R” Us factory outlet.
Marley was ninety-seven pounds, and he
could not turn around without knocking something
over. Ours was a two-bedroom house, and
we foolishly thought the boys could share the second
room. But when they kept waking each other
up, doubling our nocturnal adventures, we moved
Conor out to a narrow space between the kitchen
230 John Grogan
and the garage. Officially, it was my “home office,”
where I played guitar and paid bills. To anyone
who saw it, though, there was really no
sugarcoating it: We had moved our baby out into
the breezeway. It sounded horrible. A breezeway
was just a half step up from a garage, which, in
turn, was nearly synonymous with a barn. And
what kind of parents would raise their boy in a
barn? A breezeway had a certain unsecured sound
to it: a place open to the wind—and anything else
that might blow in. Dirt, allergens, stinging insects,
bats, criminals, perverts. A breezeway was
where you would expect to find the garbage cans
and wet tennis shoes. And in fact it was the place
where we kept Marley’s food and water bowls,
even after Conor took up residence there, not because
it was a space fit only for an animal but simply
because that’s where Marley had come to
expect them.
Our breezeway-cum-nursery sounded Dickensian,
but it really wasn’t that bad; it was almost
charming. Originally, it was built as a covered,
open-air pass-through between the house and
garage, and the previous owners had closed it in
years earlier. Before declaring it a nursery, I replaced
the old leaky jalousies with modern, tightfitting
windows. I hung new blinds and applied a
fresh coat of paint. Jenny covered the floor with
Marley & Me 231
soft rugs, hung cheerful drawings, and dangled
whimsical mobiles from the ceiling. Still, how did
it look? Our son was sleeping in the breezeway
while the dog had full run of the master bedroom.
Besides, Jenny was now working half-time for
the Post’s feature section, and mostly from home,
as she attempted to juggle children and career. It
only made sense for us to relocate closer to my office.
We agreed it was time to move.
Life is full of little ironies, and one of them was
the fact that, after months of searching, we settled
on a house in the one South Florida city I took the
greatest glee in publicly ridiculing. That place was
Boca Raton, which, translated from the Spanish,
means literally “Mouth of the Rat.” And what a
mouth it was.
Boca Raton was a wealthy Republican bastion
largely populated with recent arrivals from New
Jersey and New York. Most of the money in town
was new money, and most of those who had it
didn’t know how to enjoy it without making fools
of themselves. Boca Raton was a land of luxury
sedans, red sports cars, pink stucco mansions
crammed onto postage-stamp lots, and balkanized
walled developments with guards at the gates. The
men favored linen pants and Italian loafers sans
socks and spent inordinate amounts of time making
important-sounding cell-phone calls to one
232 John Grogan
another. The women were tanned to the consistency
of the Gucci leather bags they favored, their
burnished skin set off by hair dyed alarming
shades of silver and platinum.
The city crawled with plastic surgeons, and they
had the biggest homes and most radiant smiles of
all. For Boca’s well-preserved women, breast implants
were a virtual requirement of residency.
The younger women all had magnificent boob
jobs; the older women all had magnificent boob
jobs and face-lifts. Butt sculpting, nose jobs,
tummy tucks, and tattooed mascara rounded out
the cosmetic lineup, giving the city’s female population
the odd appearance of being foot soldiers in
an army of anatomically correct inflatable dolls.
As I once sang in a song I wrote for a press skit,
“Liposuction and silicone, a girl’s best friends in
Boca Raton.”
In my column I had been poking fun at the Boca
lifestyle, starting with the name itself. Residents
of Boca Raton never actually called their city
Boca Raton. They simply referred to it by the familiar
“Boca.” And they did not pronounce it as
the dictionary said they should, with a long O,
BO-kuh. Rather they gave it a soft, nasal, Jerseytinged
inflection. It was BOHW-kuh! as in, “Oh,
the manicured shrubbery is bew-tee-ful here in
BOHW-kuh!”
Marley & Me 233
The Disney movie Pocahontas was in the theaters
then, and I launched a running spoof on the
Indian-princess theme, which I titled “Bocahontas.”
My gold-draped protagonist was an indigenous
suburban princess who drove a pink BMW,
her rock-hard, surgically enhanced breasts jutting
into the steering wheel, allowing her to drive
hands-free, talking on her cell phone and teasing
her frosted hair in the rearview mirror as she
raced to the tanning salon. Bocahontas lived in a
pastel designer wigwam, worked out each morning
at the tribal gym—but only if she could find
parking within ten feet of the front door—and
spent her afternoons stalking wild furs, trusty
AmEx card in hand, at the ceremonial hunting
grounds known as Town Center Mall.
“Bury my Visa at Mizner Park,” Bocahontas intones
solemnly in one of my columns, a reference
to the city’s toniest shopping strip. In another, she
adjusts her buckskin Wonderbra and campaigns to
make cosmetic surgery tax-deductible.
My characterization was cruel. It was uncharitable.
It was only slightly exaggerated. Boca’s
real-life Bocahontases were the biggest fans of
those columns, trying to figure out which of them
had inspired my fictional heroine. (I’ll never tell.)
I was frequently invited to speak before social and
community groups and invariably someone would
234 John Grogan
stand up and ask, “Why do you hate BOHW-kuh
so much?” It wasn’t that I hated Boca, I told them;
it was just that I loved high farce. No place on
earth delivered it quite like the pretty-in-pink
Mouth of the Rat.
So it only made sense that when Jenny and I finally
settled on a house, it was located at ground
zero of the Boca experience, midway between the
waterfront estates of east Boca Raton and the
snooty gated communities of west Boca Raton
(which, I relished pointing out to the very zipcode-
conscious residents, fell outside the city limits
in unincorporated Palm Beach County). Our
new neighborhood was in one of the few middleclass
sections in the city, and its residents liked to
joke with a certain reverse snobbery that they
were on the wrong side of both sets of tracks.
Sure enough, there were two sets of railroad
tracks, one defining the eastern boundary of the
neighborhood and one the western. At night you
could lie in bed and listen to the freight trains
moving through on their way to and from Miami.
“Are you crazy?” I said to Jenny. “We can’t
move to Boca! I’ll be run out of town on a rail.
They’ll serve my head up on a bed of organic
mesclun greens.”
“Oh, come on,” she said. “You’re exaggerating
again.”
Marley & Me 235
My paper, the Sun-Sentinel, was the dominant
newspaper in Boca Raton, far outpacing the Miami
Herald, the Palm Beach Post, or even the local
Boca Raton News in circulation. My work was
widely read in the city and its western developments,
and because my photograph appeared above
my column, I was frequently recognized. I didn’t
think I was exaggerating. “They’ll skin me alive
and hang my carcass in front of Tiffany’s,” I said.
But we had been looking for months, and this
was the first house that met all our criteria. It was
the right size at the right price and in the right
place, strategically located between the two offices
where I split my time. The public schools were
about as good as public schools got in South
Florida, and for all its superficialities, Boca Raton
had an excellent park system, including some of
the most pristine ocean beaches in the Miami–
Palm Beach metropolitan area. With more than a
little trepidation, I agreed to go forward with the
purchase. I felt like a not-so-secret agent infiltrating
the enemy’s encampment. The barbarian was
about to slip inside the gate, an unapologetic
Boca-basher crashing the Boca garden party. Who
could blame them for not wanting me?
When we first arrived, I slinked around town
self-consciously, convinced all eyes were on me.
My ears burned, imagining people were whisper236
John Grogan
ing as I passed. After I wrote a column welcoming
myself to the neighborhood (and eating a fair
amount of crow in the process), I received a number
of letters saying things like “You trash our city
and now you want to live here? What a shameless
hypocrite!” I had to admit, they made a point. An
ardent city booster I knew from work couldn’t
wait to confront me. “So,” he said gleefully, “you
decided tacky Boca isn’t such a bad place after all,
huh? The parks and the tax rate and the schools
and beaches and zoning, all that’s not so bad when
it comes time to buy a house, is it?” All I could do
was roll over and cry uncle.
I soon discovered, however, that most of my
neighbors here on the wrong side of both sets of
tracks were sympathetic to my written assaults on
what one of them called “the gauche and vulgar
among us.” Pretty soon I felt right at home.
Our house was a 1970s-vintage four-bedroom
ranch with twice the square footage of our first
home and none of the charm. The place had potential,
though, and gradually we put our mark on
it. We ripped up the wall-to-wall shag carpeting
and installed oak floors in the living room and Italian
tile everywhere else. We replaced the ugly sliding
glass doors with varnished French doors, and I
Marley & Me 237
slowly turned the bereft front yard into a tropical
garden teeming with gingers and heliconias and
passion vines that butterflies and passersby alike
stopped to drink in.
The two best features of our new home had
nothing to do with the house itself. Visible from
our living room window was a small city park
filled with playground equipment beneath towering
pines. The children adored it. And in the
backyard, right off the new French doors, was an
in-ground swimming pool. We hadn’t wanted a
pool, worrying about the risk to our two toddlers,
and Jenny made our Realtor blanch when she suggested
filling it in. Our first act on the day we
moved in was to surround the pool with a fourfoot-
high fence worthy of a maximum-security
prison. The boys—Patrick had just turned three
and Conor eighteen months when we arrived—
took to the water like a pair of dolphins. The park
became an extension of our backyard and the pool
an extension of the mild season we so cherished. A
swimming pool in Florida, we soon learned, made
the difference between barely enduring the withering
summer months and actually enjoying them.
No one loved the backyard pool more than our
water dog, that proud descendant of fishermen’s
retrievers plying the ocean swells off the coast of
Newfoundland. If the pool gate was open, Marley
238 John Grogan
would charge for the water, getting a running start
from the family room, going airborne out the open
French doors and, with one bounce off the brick
patio, landing in the pool on his belly with a giant
flop that sent a geyser into the air and waves over
the edge. Swimming with Marley was a potentially
life-threatening adventure, a little like swimming
with an ocean liner. He would come at you full
speed ahead, his paws flailing out in front of him.
You’d expect him to veer away at the last minute,
but he would simply crash into you and try to
climb aboard. If you were over your head, he
pushed you beneath the surface. “What do I look
like, a dock?” I would say, and cradle him in my
arms to let him catch his breath, his front paws
still paddling away on autopilot as he licked the
water off my face.
One thing our new house did not have was a
Marley-proof bunker. At our old house, the concrete
one-car garage was pretty much indestructible,
and it had two windows, which kept it
tolerably comfortable even in the dead of summer.
Our Boca house had a two-car garage, but it was
unsuitable for housing Marley or any other lifeform
that could not survive temperatures above
150 degrees. The garage had no windows and was
stiflingly hot. Besides, it was finished in drywall,
not concrete, which Marley had already proved
Marley & Me 239
himself quite adept at pulverizing. His thunderinduced
panic attacks were only getting worse, despite
the tranquilizers.
The first time we left him alone in our new
house, we shut him in the laundry room, just off
the kitchen, with a blanket and a big bowl of water.
When we returned a few hours later, he had
scratched up the door. The damage was minor, but
we had just mortgaged our lives for the next thirty
years to buy this house, and we knew it didn’t
bode well. “Maybe he’s just getting used to his
new surroundings,” I offered.
“There’s not even a cloud in the sky,” Jenny observed
skeptically. “What’s going to happen the
first time a storm hits?”
The next time we left him alone, we found out.
As thunderheads rolled in, we cut our outing short
and hurried home, but it was too late. Jenny was a
few steps ahead of me, and when she opened the
laundry-room door she stopped short and uttered,
“Oh my God.” She said it the way you would if
you had just discovered a body hanging from the
chandelier. Again: “Oh . . . My . . . God.”
peeked in over her shoulder, and it was uglier than
I had feared. Marley was standing there, panting
frantically, his paws and mouth bleeding. Loose
fur was everywhere, as though the thunder had
scared the hair right out of his coat. The damage
I
240 John Grogan
was worse than anything he had done before, and
that was saying a lot. An entire wall was gouged
open, obliterated clear down to the studs. Plaster
and wood chips and bent nails were everywhere.
Electric wiring lay exposed. Blood smeared the
floor and the walls. It looked, literally, like the
scene of a shotgun homicide.
“Oh my God,” Jenny said a third time.
“Oh my God,” I repeated. It was all either of us
could say.
After several seconds of just standing there
mute, staring at the carnage, I finally said, “Okay,
we can handle this. It’s all fixable.” Jenny shot me
her look; she had seen my repairs. “I’ll call a drywall
guy and have it professionally repaired,” I
said. “I won’t even try to do this one myself.” I
slipped Marley one of his tranquilizers and worried
silently that this latest destructive jag might
just throw Jenny back into the funk she had sunk
into after Conor’s birth. Those blues, however,
seemed to be long behind her. She was surprisingly
philosophical about it.
“A few hundred bucks and we’ll be good as
new,” she chirped.
“That’s what I’m thinking, too,” I said. “I’ll
give a few extra speeches to bring in some cash.
That’ll pay for it.”
Within a few minutes, Marley was beginning to
Marley & Me 241
mellow. His eyelids grew heavy and his eyes
deeply bloodshot, as they always did when he was
doped up. He looked like he belonged at a Grateful
Dead concert. I hated to see him this way, I always
hated it, and always resisted sedating him.
But the pills helped him move past the terror, past
the deadly threat that existed only in his mind. If
he were human, I would call him certifiably psychotic.
He was delusional, paranoid, convinced a
dark, evil force was coming from the heavens to
take him. He curled up on the rug in front of the
kitchen sink and let out a deep sigh. I knelt beside
him and stroked his blood-caked fur. “Geez,
dog,” I said. “What are we going to do with you?”
Without lifting his head, he looked up at me with
those bloodshot stoner eyes of his, the saddest,
most mournful, eyes I have ever seen, and just
gazed at me. It was as if he were trying to tell me
something, something important he needed me to
understand. “I know,” I said. “I know you can’t
help it.”
The next day Jenny and I took the boys with us to
the pet store and bought a giant cage. They came
in all different sizes, and when I described Marley
to the clerk he led us to the largest of them all. It
was enormous, big enough for a lion to stand up
242 John Grogan
and turn around in. Made out of heavy steel grating,
it had two bolt-action barrel locks to hold the
door securely shut and a heavy steel pan for a
floor. This was our answer, our own portable Alcatraz.
Conor and Patrick both crawled inside and I
slid the bolts shut, locking them in for a moment.
“What do you guys think?” I asked. “Will this
hold our Superdog?”
Conor teetered at the cage door, his fingers
through the bars like a veteran inmate, and said,
“Me in jail.”
“Waddy’s going to be our prisoner!” Patrick
chimed in, delighted at the prospect.
Back home, we set up the crate next to the
washing machine. Portable Alcatraz took up
nearly half the laundry room. “Come here, Marley!”
I called when it was fully assembled. I tossed
a Milk-Bone in and he happily pranced in after it.
I closed and bolted the door behind him, and he
stood there chewing his treat, unfazed by the new
life experience he was about to enter, the one
known in mental-health circles as “involuntary
commitment.”
“This is going to be your new home when we’re
away,” I said cheerfully. Marley stood there panting
contentedly, not a trace of concern on his face,
and then he lay down and let out a sigh. “A good
sign,” I said to Jenny. “A very good sign.”
Marley & Me 243
That evening we decided to give the maximumsecurity
dog-containment unit a test run. This
time I didn’t even need a Milk-Bone to lure Marley
in. I simply opened the gate, gave a whistle,
and in he walked, tail banging the metal sides. “Be
a good boy, Marley,” I said. As we loaded the boys
into the minivan to go out to dinner, Jenny said,
“You know something?”
“What?” I asked.
“This is the first time since we got him that I
don’t have a pit in my stomach leaving Marley
alone in the house,” she said. “I never even realized
how much it put me on edge until now.”
“I know what you mean,” I said. “It was always
a guessing game: ‘What will our dog destroy this
time?’ ”
“Like, ‘How much will this little night out at
the movies cost us?’ ”
“It was like Russian roulette.”
“I think that crate is going to be the best money
we ever spent,” she said.
“We should have done this a long time ago,” I
agreed. “You can’t put a price on peace of mind.”
We had a great dinner out, followed by a sunset
stroll on the beach. The boys splashed in the surf,
chased seagulls, threw fistfuls of sand in the water.
Jenny was uncharacteristically relaxed. Just knowing
Marley was safely secured inside Alcatraz, un244
John Grogan
able to hurt himself or anything else, was a balm.
“What a nice outing this has been,” she said as we
walked up the front sidewalk to our house.
I was about to agree with her when I noticed
something in my peripheral vision, something up
ahead that wasn’t quite right. I turned my head and
stared at the window beside the front door. The
miniblinds were shut, as they always were when we
left the house. But about a foot up from the bottom
of the window the metal slats were bent apart and
something was sticking through them.
Something black. And wet. And pressed up
against the glass. “What the—?” I said. “How
could . . . Marley?”
When I opened the front door, sure enough,
there was our one-dog welcoming committee,
wiggling all over the foyer, pleased as punch to
have us home again. We fanned out across the
house, checking every room and closet for telltales
of Marley’s unsupervised adventure. The house
was fine, untouched. We converged on the laundry
room. The crate’s door stood wide open, swung
back like the stone to Jesus’ tomb on Easter morning.
It was as if some secret accomplice had snuck
in and sprung our inmate. I squatted down beside
the cage to have a closer look. The two bolt-action
barrel locks were slid back in the open position,
and—a significant clue—they were dripping with
Marley & Me 245
saliva. “It looks like an inside job,” I said. “Somehow
Houdini here licked his way out of the Big
House.”
“I can’t believe it,” Jenny said. Then she uttered
a word I was glad the children were not close
enough to hear.
We always fancied Marley to be as dumb as algae,
but he had been clever enough to figure out
how to use his long, strong tongue through the
bars to slowly work the barrels free from their
slots. He had licked his way to freedom, and he
proved over the coming weeks that he was able to
easily repeat the trick whenever he wanted. Our
maximum-security prison had in fact turned out
to be a halfway house. Some days we would return
to find him resting peacefully in the cage; other
days he’d be waiting at the front window. Involuntary
commitment was not a concept Marley was
going to take lying down.
We took to wiring both locks in place with
heavy electrical cable. That worked for a while,
but one day, with distant rumbles on the horizon,
we came home to find that the bottom corner of
the cage’s gate had been peeled back as though
with a giant can opener, and a panicky Marley, his
paws again bloodied, was firmly stuck around the
rib cage, half in and half out of the tight opening.
I bent the steel gate back in place as best I could,
246 John Grogan
and we began wiring not only the slide bolts in
place but all four corners of the door as well.
Pretty soon we were reinforcing the corners of the
cage itself as Marley continued to put his brawn
into busting out. Within three months the gleaming
steel cage we had thought so impregnable
looked like it had taken a direct hit from a howitzer.
The bars were twisted and bent, the frame
pried apart, the door an ill-fitting mess, the sides
bulging outward. I continued to reinforce it as best
I could, and it continued to hold tenuously against
Marley’s full-bodied assaults. Whatever false
sense of security the contraption had once offered
us was gone. Each time we left, even for a half
hour, we wondered whether this would be the
time that our manic inmate would bust out and go
on another couch-shredding, wall-gouging, dooreating
rampage. So much for peace of mind.
C H A P T E R 1 8
Alfresco Dining
?
Marley didn’t fit into the Boca Raton scene
any better than I did. Boca had (and surely
still has) a disproportionate share of the world’s
smallest, yappiest, most pampered dogs, the kind
of pets that the Bocahontas set favored as fashion
accessories. They were precious little things, often
with bows in their fur and cologne spritzed on
their necks, some even with painted toenails, and
you would spot them in the most unlikely of
places—peeking out of a designer handbag at you
as you waited in line at the bagel shop; snoozing
on their mistresses’ towels at the beach; leading
the charge on a rhinestone-studded leash into a
pricey antiques store. Mostly, you could find them
cruising around town in Lexuses, Mercedes-
Benzes, and Jaguars, perched aristocratically behind
the steering wheels on their owners’ laps.
248 John Grogan
They were to Marley what Grace Kelly was to
Gomer Pyle. They were petite, sophisticated, and
of discriminating taste. Marley was big, clunky,
and a sniffer of genitalia. He wanted so much to
have them invite him into their circle; they so
much were not about to.
With his recently digested obedience certificate
under his belt, Marley was fairly manageable on
walks, but if he saw something he liked, he still
wouldn’t hesitate to lunge for it, threat of strangulation
be damned. When we took strolls around
town, the high-rent pooches were always worth
getting all choked up over. Each time he spotted
one, he would break into a gallop, barreling up to
it, dragging Jenny or me behind him at the end of
the leash, the noose tightening around his throat,
making him gasp and cough. Each time Marley
would be roundly snubbed, not only by the Boca
minidog but by the Boca minidog’s owner, who
would snatch up young Fifi or Suzi or Cheri as if
rescuing her from the jaws of an alligator. Marley
didn’t seem to mind. The next minidog to come
into sight, he would do it all over again, undeterred
by his previous jilting. As a guy who was
never very good at the rejection part of dating, I
admired his perseverance.
Outside dining was a big part of the Boca experience,
and many restaurants in town offered alMarley
& Me 249
fresco seating beneath palm trees whose trunks
and fronds were studded with strings of tiny
white lights. These were places to see and be seen,
to sip caffe lattes and jabber into cell phones as
your companion stared vacantly at the sky. The
Boca minidog was an important part of the alfresco
ambience. Couples brought their dogs with
them and hooked their leashes to the wroughtiron
tables where the dogs would contentedly curl
up at their feet or sometimes even sit up at the
table beside their masters, holding their heads
high in an imperious manner as if miffed by the
waiters’ inattentiveness.
One Sunday afternoon Jenny and I thought it
would be fun to take the whole family for an outside
meal at one of the popular meeting places.
“When in Boca, do as the Bocalites,” I said. We
loaded the boys and the dog into the minivan and
headed to Mizner Park, the downtown shopping
plaza modeled after an Italian piazza with wide
sidewalks and endless dining possibilities. We
parked and strolled up one side of the three-block
strip and down the other, seeing and being seen—
and what a sight we must have made. Jenny had
the boys strapped into a double stroller that could
have been mistaken for a maintenance cart, loaded
up in the back with all manner of toddler paraphernalia,
from applesauce to wet wipes. I walked
250 John Grogan
beside her, Marley, on full Boca minidog alert,
barely contained at my side. He was even wilder
than usual, beside himself at the possibility of
getting near one of the little purebreds prancing
about, and I gripped hard on his leash. His tongue
hung out and he panted like a locomotive.
We settled on a restaurant with one of the more
affordable menus on the strip and hovered nearby
until a sidewalk table opened up. The table was
perfect—shaded, with a view of the piazza’s central
fountain, and heavy enough, we were sure, to
secure an excitable hundred-pound Lab. I hooked
the end of Marley’s leash to one of the legs, and
we ordered drinks all around, two beers and two
apple juices.
“To a beautiful day with my beautiful family,”
Jenny said, holding up her glass for a toast. We
clicked our beer bottles; the boys smashed their
sippy cups together. That’s when it happened. So
fast, in fact, that we didn’t even realize it had happened.
All we knew was that one instant we were
sitting at a lovely outdoor table toasting the beautiful
day, and the next our table was on the move,
crashing its way through the sea of other tables,
banging into innocent bystanders, and making a
horrible, ear-piercing, industrial-grade shriek as it
scraped over the concrete pavers. In that first split
second, before either of us realized exactly what
Marley & Me 251
bad fate had befallen us, it seemed distinctly possible
that our table was possessed, fleeing our family
of unwashed Boca invaders, which most certainly
did not belong here. In the next split second, I saw
that it wasn’t our table that was haunted, but our
dog. Marley was out in front, chugging forward
with every ounce of rippling muscle he had, the
leash stretched tight as piano wire.
In the fraction of a second after that, I saw just
where Marley was heading, table in tow. Fifty feet
down the sidewalk, a delicate French poodle lingered
at her owner’s side, nose in the air. Damn, I
remember thinking, what is his thing for poodles?
Jenny and I both sat there for a moment
longer, drinks in hand, the boys between us in
their stroller, our perfect little Sunday afternoon
unblemished except for the fact that our table was
now motoring its way through the crowd. An instant
later we were on our feet, screaming, running,
apologizing to the customers around us as we
went. I was the first to reach the runaway table as
it surged and scraped down the piazza. I grabbed
on, planted my feet, and leaned back with everything
I had. Soon Jenny was beside me, pulling
back, too. I felt like we were action heroes in a
western, giving our all to rein in the runaway train
before it jumped the tracks and plunged over a
cliff. In the middle of all the bedlam, Jenny actu252
John Grogan
ally turned and called over her shoulder, “Be right
back, boys!” Be right back? She made it sound so
ordinary, so expected, so planned, as if we often
did this sort of thing, deciding on the spur of the
moment that, oh, why not, it might just be fun to
let Marley lead us on a little table stroll around
town, maybe doing a bit of window-shopping
along the way, before we circled back in time for
appetizers.
When we finally got the table stopped and Marley
reeled in, just feet from the poodle and her
mortified owner, I turned back to check on the
boys, and that’s when I got my first good look at
the faces of my fellow alfresco diners. It was like a
scene out of one of those E. F. Hutton commercials
where an entire bustling crowd freezes in silence,
waiting to hear a whispered word of
investment advice. Men stopped in midconversation,
cell phones in their hands. Women stared
with opened mouths. The Bocalites were aghast.
It was finally Conor who broke the silence.
“Waddy go walk!” he screamed with delight.
A waiter rushed up and helped me drag the table
back into place as Jenny held Marley, still fixated
on the object of his desire, in a death grip. “Let me
get some new place settings,” the waiter said.
“That won’t be necessary,” Jenny said nonchaMarley
& Me 253
lantly. “We’ll just be paying for our drinks and
going.”
It wasn’t long after our excellent excursion into
the Boca alfresco-dining scene that I found a book
in the library titled No Bad Dogs by the acclaimed
British dog trainer Barbara Woodhouse. As the title
implied, No Bad Dogs advanced the same belief
that Marley’s first instructor, Miss
Dominatrix, held so dear—that the only thing
standing between an incorrigible canine and
greatness was a befuddled, indecisive, weakwilled
human master. Dogs weren’t the problem,
Woodhouse held; people were. That said, the
book went on to describe, chapter after chapter,
some of the most egregious canine behaviors
imaginable. There were dogs that howled incessantly,
dug incessantly, fought incessantly,
humped incessantly, and bit incessantly. There
were dogs that hated all men and dogs that hated
all women; dogs that stole from their masters and
dogs that jealously attacked defenseless infants.
There were even dogs that ate their own feces.
Thank God, I thought, at least he doesn’t eat his
own feces.
As I read, I began to feel better about our flawed
254 John Grogan
retriever. We had gradually come to the firm conclusion
that Marley was indeed the world’s worst
dog. Now I was buoyed to read that there were all
sorts of horrid behaviors he did not have. He
didn’t have a mean bone in his body. He wasn’t
much of a barker. Didn’t bite. Didn’t assault other
dogs, except in the pursuit of love. Considered
everyone his best friend. Best of all, he didn’t eat
or roll in scat. Besides, I told myself, there are no
bad dogs, only inept, clueless owners like Jenny
and me. It was our fault Marley turned out the
way he had.
Then I got to chapter 24, “Living with the
Mentally Unstable Dog.” As I read, I swallowed
loudly. Woodhouse was describing Marley with an
understanding so intimate I could swear she had
been bunking with him in his battered crate. She
addressed the manic, bizarre behavior patterns,
the destructiveness when left alone, the gouged
floors and chewed rugs. She described the attempts
by owners of such beasts “to make some
place either in the house or yard dogproof.” She
even addressed the use of tranquilizers as a desperate
(and largely ineffective) last measure to try
to return these mentally broken mutts to the land
of the sane.
“Some are born unstable, some are made unstable
by their living conditions, but the result is the
Marley & Me 255
same: the dogs, instead of being a joy to their
owners, are a worry, an expense, and often bring
complete despair to an entire family,” Woodhouse
wrote. I looked down at Marley snoozing at my
feet and said, “Sound familiar?”
In a subsequent chapter, titled “Abnormal
Dogs,” Woodhouse wrote with a sense of resignation:
“I cannot stress often enough that if you
wish to keep a dog that is not normal, you must
face up to living a slightly restricted existence.”
You mean like living in mortal fear of going out
for a gallon of milk? “Although you may love a
subnormal dog,” she continued, “other people
must not be inconvenienced by it.” Other people
such as, hypothetically speaking, Sunday diners
at a sidewalk cafe in Boca Raton, Florida?
Woodhouse had nailed our dog and our pathetic,
codependent existence. We had it all: the
hapless, weak-willed masters; the mentally unstable,
out-of-control dog; the trail of destroyed
property; the annoyed and inconvenienced
strangers and neighbors. We were a textbook case.
“Congratulations, Marley,” I said to him. “You
qualify as subnormal.” He opened his eyes at the
sound of his name, stretched, and rolled onto his
back, paws in the air.
I was expecting Woodhouse to offer a cheery solution
for the owners of such defective merchan256
John Grogan
dise, a few helpful tips that, when properly executed,
could turn even the most manic of pets into
Westminster-worthy show dogs. But she ended
her book on a much darker note: “Only the owners
of unbalanced dogs can really know where the
line can be drawn between a dog that is sane and
one that is mentally unsound. No one can make up
the owner’s mind as to what to do with the last
kind. I, as a great dog lover, feel it is kinder to put
them to sleep.”
Put them to sleep? Gulp. In case she wasn’t
making herself clear, she added, “Surely, when all
training and veterinary help has been exhausted
and there is no hope that the dog will ever live a
reasonably normal existence, it is kinder to pet
and owner to put the dog to sleep.”
Even Barbara Woodhouse, lover of animals,
successful trainer of thousands of dogs their owners
had deemed hopeless, was conceding that
some dogs were simply beyond help. If it were up
to her, they would be humanely dispatched to that
great canine insane asylum in the sky.
“Don’t worry, big guy,” I said, leaning down to
scratch Marley’s belly. “The only sleep we’re going
to be doing around this house is the kind you
get to wake up from.”
He sighed dramatically and drifted back to his
dreams of French poodles in heat.
Marley & Me 257
? ? ?
It was around this same time that we also learned
not all Labs are created equal. The breed actually
has two distinct subgroups: English and American.
The English line tends to be smaller and
stockier than the American line, with blockier
heads and gentle, calm dispositions. They are the
favored line for showing. Labs belonging to the
American line are noticeably larger and stronger,
with sleeker, less squat features. They are known
for their endless energy and high spirits and favored
for use in the field as hunting and sports
dogs. The same qualities that make the American
line of Labs so unstoppably superb in the woods
makes them challenges in the family home. Their
exuberant energy level, the literature warned,
should not be underestimated.
As the brochure for a Pennsylvania retriever
breeder, Endless Mountain Labradors, explains it:
“So many people ask us, ‘What’s the difference
between the English and the American (field)
Labs?’ There is such a big difference that the AKC
is considering splitting the breed. There is a difference
in build, as well as temperament. If you
are looking for strictly a field dog for field trial
competition, go for the American field dog. They
are athletic, tall, lanky, thin, but have VERY hy258
John Grogan
per, high-strung personalities, which do not lend
themselves to being the best ‘family dogs.’ On the
other hand, the English Labs are very blocky,
stocky, shorter in their build. Very sweet, quiet,
mellow, lovely dogs.”
It didn’t take me long to figure out which line
Marley belonged to. It was all beginning to make
sense. We had blindly picked out a type of Lab
best suited to stampeding across the open wilderness
all day. If that weren’t enough, our specific
choice just happened to be mentally unbalanced,
unwound, and beyond the reach of training, tranquilizers,
or canine psychiatry. The kind of subnormal
specimen an experienced dog trainer like
Barbara Woodhouse might just consider better off
dead. Great, I thought. Now we find out.
Not long after Woodhouse’s book opened our eyes
to Marley’s crazed mind, a neighbor asked us to
take in their cat for a week while they were on vacation.
Sure, we said, bring him over. Compared
with a dog, cats were easy. Cats ran on autopilot,
and this cat in particular was shy and elusive, especially
around Marley. He could be counted on to
hide beneath the couch all day and only come out
after we were asleep to eat his food, kept high out
Marley & Me 259
of Marley’s reach, and use the kitty-litter box,
which we tucked away in a discreet corner of the
screened patio that enclosed the pool. There was
nothing to it, really. Marley was totally unaware
the cat was even in the house.
Midway through the cat’s stay with us, I awoke
at dawn to a loud, driving beat resonating through
the mattress. It was Marley, quivering with excitement
beside the bed, his tail slapping the mattress
at a furious rate. Whomp! Whomp! Whomp! I
reached out to pet him, and that sent him into evasive
maneuvers. He was prancing and dancing beside
the bed. The Marley Mambo. “Okay, what do
you have?” I asked him, eyes still shut. As if to answer,
Marley proudly plopped his prize onto the
crisp sheets, just inches from my face. In my
groggy state, it took me a minute to process what
exactly it was. The object was small, dark, of indefinable
shape, and coated in a coarse, gritty sand.
Then the smell reached my nostrils. An acrid, pungent,
putrid smell. I bolted upright and pushed
backward against Jenny, waking her up. I pointed
at Marley’s gift to us, glistening on the sheets.
“That’s not . . .” Jenny began, revulsion in her
voice.
“Yes, it is,” I said. “He raided the kitty-litter
box.”
260 John Grogan
Marley couldn’t have looked more proud had he
just presented us with the Hope diamond. As Barbara
Woodhouse had so sagely predicted, our
mentally unstable, abnormal mutt had entered the
feces-eating stage of his life.
C H A P T E R 1 9
Lightning Strikes
?
After Conor’s arrival, everyone we knew—
with the exception of my very Catholic parents
who were praying for dozens of little
Grogans—assumed we were done having children.
In the two-income, professional crowd in which
we ran, one child was the norm, two were considered
a bit of an extravagance, and three were simply
unheard-of. Especially given the difficult
pregnancy we had gone through with Conor, no
one could understand why we might want to subject
ourselves to the messy process all over again.
But we had come a long way since our newlywed
days of killing houseplants. Parenthood became
us. Our two boys brought us more joy than we
ever thought anyone or anything possibly could.
They defined our life now, and while parts of us
missed the leisurely vacations, lazy Saturdays
262 John Grogan
reading novels, and romantic dinners that lingered
late into the night, we had come to find our pleasures
in new ways—in spilled applesauce and tiny
nose prints on windowpanes and the soft symphony
of bare feet padding down the hallway at
dawn. Even on the worst days, we usually managed
to find something to smile over, knowing by
now what every parent sooner or later figures out,
that these wondrous days of early parenthood—of
diapered bottoms and first teeth and incomprehensible
jabber—are but a brilliant, brief flash in
the vastness of an otherwise ordinary lifetime.
We both rolled our eyes when my old-school
mother clucked at us, “Enjoy them while you can
because they’ll be grown up before you know it.”
Now, even just a few years into it, we were realizing
she was right. Hers was a well-worn cliche but
one we could already see was steeped in truth. The
boys were growing up fast, and each week ended
another little chapter that could never again be revisited.
One week Patrick was sucking his thumb,
the next he had weaned himself of it forever. One
week Conor was our baby in a crib; the next he
was a little boy using a toddler bed for a trampoline.
Patrick was unable to pronounce the L
sound, and when women would coo over him, as
they often did, he would put his fists on his hips,
stick out his lip, and say, “Dos yadies are yaughing
Marley & Me 263
at me.” I always meant to get it on videotape, but
one day the L’s came out perfectly, and that was
that. For months we could not get Conor out of
his Superman pajamas. He would race through the
house, cape flapping behind him, yelling, “Me
Stupe Man!” And then it was over, another missed
video moment.
Children serve as impossible-to-ignore, inyour-
face timepieces, marking the relentless
march of one’s life through what otherwise might
seem an infinite sea of minutes, hours, days, and
years. Our babies were growing up faster than either
of us wanted, which partially explains why,
about a year after moving to our new house in
Boca, we began trying for our third. As I said to
Jenny, “Hey, we’ve got four bedrooms now; why
not?” Two tries was all it took. Neither of us
would admit we wanted a girl, but of course we
did, desperately so, despite our many pronouncements
during the pregnancy that having three
boys would be just great. When a sonogram finally
confirmed our secret hope, Jenny draped her arms
over my shoulders and whispered, “I’m so happy I
could give you a little girl.” I was so happy, too.
Not all our friends shared our enthusiasm. Most
met news of our pregnancy with the same blunt
question: “Did you mean to?” They just could not
believe a third pregnancy could be anything other
264 John Grogan
than an accident. If indeed it was not, as we insisted,
then they had to question our judgment.
One acquaintance went so far as to chastise Jenny
for allowing me to knock her up again, asking, in a
tone best reserved for someone who had just
signed over all her worldly possessions to a cult in
Guyana: “What were you thinking?”
We didn’t care. On January 9, 1997, Jenny gave
me a belated Christmas present: a pink-cheeked,
seven-pound baby girl, whom we named Colleen.
Our family only now felt like it was complete. If
the pregnancy for Conor had been a litany of
stress and worry, this pregnancy was textbook
perfect, and delivering at Boca Raton Community
Hospital introduced us to a whole new level of
pampered customer satisfaction. Just down the
hall from our room was a lounge with a free, allyou-
can-drink cappuccino station—so very Boca.
By the time the baby finally came, I was so jacked
up on frothy caffeine, I could barely hold my
hands still to snip the umbilical cord.
When Colleen was one week old, Jenny brought
her outside for the first time. The day was crisp
and beautiful, and the boys and I were in the front
yard, planting flowers. Marley was chained to a
tree nearby, happy to lie in the shade and watch
Marley & Me 265
the world go by. Jenny sat in the grass beside him
and placed the sleeping Colleen in a portable
bassinet on the ground between them. After several
minutes, the boys beckoned for Mom to come
closer to see their handiwork, and they led Jenny
and me around the garden beds as Colleen napped
in the shade beside Marley. We wandered behind
some large shrubbery from where we could still
see the baby but passersby on the street could not
see us. As we turned back, I stopped and motioned
for Jenny to look out through the shrubs.
Out on the street, an older couple walking by had
stopped and were gawking at the scene in our
front yard with bewildered expressions. At first, I
wasn’t sure what had made them stop and stare.
Then it hit me: from their vantage point, all they
could see was a fragile newborn alone with a large
yellow dog, who appeared to be babysitting
single-handedly.
We lingered in silence, stifling giggles. There
was Marley, looking like an Egyptian sphinx, lying
with his front paws crossed, head up, panting contentedly,
every few seconds pushing his snout over
to sniff the baby’s head. The poor couple must
have thought they had stumbled on a case of felony
child neglect. No doubt the parents were out
drinking at a bar somewhere, having left the infant
alone in the care of the neighborhood Labrador re266
John Grogan
triever, who just might attempt to nurse the infant
at any second. As if he were in on the ruse, Marley
without prompting shifted positions and rested his
chin across the baby’s stomach, his head bigger
than her whole body, and let out a long sigh as if he
were saying, When are those two going to get
home? He appeared to be protecting her, and
maybe he was, though I’m pretty sure he was just
drinking in the scent of her diaper.
Jenny and I stood there in the bushes and exchanged
grins. The thought of Marley as an infant
caregiver—Doggie Day Care—was just too good
to let go. I was tempted to wait there and see how
the scene would play out, but then it occurred to
me that one scenario might involve a 911 call to
the police. We had gotten away with storing Conor
out in the breezeway, but how would we explain
this one? (“Well, I know how it must look, Officer,
but he’s actually surprisingly responsible . . .”)
We stepped out of the bushes and waved to the
couple—and watched the relief wash over their
faces. Thank God, that baby hadn’t been thrown
to the dogs after all.
“You must really trust your dog,” the woman
said somewhat cautiously, betraying a belief that
dogs were fierce and unpredictable and had no
place that close to a defenseless newborn.
“He hasn’t eaten one yet,” I said.
Marley & Me 267
? ? ?
Two months after Colleen arrived home I celebrated
my fortieth birthday in a most inauspicious
manner, namely, by myself. The Big Four-O is
supposed to be a major turning point, the place in
life where you bid restless youth farewell and embrace
the predictable comforts of middle age. If
any birthday merited a blowout celebration, it was
the fortieth, but not for me. We were now responsible
parents with three children; Jenny had a new
baby pressed to her breast. There were more important
things to worry about. I arrived home
from work, and Jenny was tired and worn down.
After a quick meal of leftovers, I bathed the boys
and put them to bed while Jenny nursed Colleen.
By eight-thirty, all three children were asleep, and
so was my wife. I popped a beer and sat out on the
patio, staring into the iridescent blue water of the
lit swimming pool. As always, Marley was faithfully
at my side, and as I scratched his ears, it occurred
to me that he was at about the same
turning point in life. We had brought him home
six years earlier. In dog years, that would put him
somewhere in his early forties now. He had crossed
unnoticed into middle age but still acted every bit
the puppy. Except for a string of stubborn ear infections
that required Dr. Jay’s repeated interven268
John Grogan
tion, he was healthy. He showed no signs whatsoever
of growing up or winding down. I had never
thought of Marley as any kind of role model, but
sitting there sipping my beer, I was aware that
maybe he held the secret for a good life. Never
slow down, never look back, live each day with
adolescent verve and spunk and curiosity and
playfulness. If you think you’re still a young pup,
then maybe you are, no matter what the calendar
says. Not a bad philosophy for life, though I’d take
a pass on the part that involved vandalizing
couches and laundry rooms.
“Well, big guy,” I said, pressing my beer bottle
against his cheek in a kind of interspecies toast.
“It’s just you and me tonight. Here’s to forty.
Here’s to middle age. Here’s to running with the
big dogs right up until the end.” And then he, too,
curled up and went to sleep.
I was still moping about my solitary birthday a
few days later when Jim Tolpin, my old colleague
who had broken Marley of his jumping habit,
called unexpectedly and asked if I wanted to grab
a beer the next night, a Saturday. Jim had left the
newspaper business to pursue a law degree at
about the same time we moved to Boca Raton, and
we hadn’t spoken in months. “Sure,” I said, not
stopping to wonder why. Jim picked me up at six
Marley & Me 269
and took me to an English pub, where we quaffed
Bass ale and caught up on each other’s lives. We
were having a grand old time until the bartender
called out, “Is there a John Grogan here? Phone
for John Grogan.”
It was Jenny, and she sounded very upset and
stressed-out. “The baby’s crying, the boys are out
of control, and I just ripped my contact lens!” she
wailed into the phone. “Can you come home right
away?”
“Try to calm down,” I said. “Sit tight. I’ll be
right home.” I hung up, and the bartender gave
me a you-poor-sorry-henpecked-bastard kind of
a nod and simply said, “My sympathies, mate.”
“Come on,” Jim said. “I’ll drive you home.”
When we turned onto my block, both sides of
the street were lined with cars. “Somebody’s having
a party,” I said.
“Looks like it,” Jim answered.
“For God’s sakes,” I said when we reached the
house. “Look at that! Someone even parked in my
driveway. If that isn’t nerve.”
We blocked the offender in, and I invited Jim
inside. I was still griping about the inconsiderate
jerk who parked in my driveway when the front
door swung open. It was Jenny with Colleen in her
arms. She didn’t look upset at all. In fact, she had
270 John Grogan
a big grin on her face. Behind her stood a bagpipe
player in kilts. Good God! What have I walked in
on? Then I looked beyond the bagpipe player and
saw that someone had taken down the kiddy fence
around the pool and launched floating candles on
the water. The deck was crammed with several
dozen of my friends, neighbors, and coworkers.
Just as I was making the connection that all those
cars on the street belonged to all these people in
my house, they shouted in unison, “HAPPY
BIRTHDAY, OLD MAN!”
My wife had not forgotten after all.
When I was finally able to snap my jaw shut, I
took Jenny in my arms, kissed her on the cheek,
and whispered in her ear, “I’ll get you later for
this.”
Someone opened the laundry-room door looking
for the trash can, and out bounded Marley in
prime party mode. He swept through the crowd,
stole a mozzarella-and-basil appetizer off a tray,
lifted a couple of women’s miniskirts with his
snout, and made a break for the unfenced swimming
pool. I tackled him just as he was launching
into his signature running belly flop and
dragged him back to solitary confinement.
“Don’t worry,” I said. “I’ll save you the leftovers.”
Marley & Me 271
? ? ?
It wasn’t long after the surprise party—a party
whose success was marked by the arrival of the
police at midnight to tell us to pipe down—that
Marley finally was able to find validation for his
intense fear of thunder. I was in the backyard on a
Sunday afternoon under brooding, darkening
skies, digging up a rectangle of grass to plant yet
another vegetable garden. Gardening was becoming
a serious hobby for me, and the better I got at
it, the more I wanted to grow. Slowly I was taking
over the entire backyard. As I worked, Marley
paced nervously around me, his internal barometer
sensing an impending storm. I sensed it, too,
but I wanted to get the project done and figured I
would work until I felt the first drops of rain. As I
dug, I kept glancing at the sky, watching an ominous
black thunderhead forming several miles to
the east, out over the ocean. Marley was whining
softly, beckoning me to put down the shovel and
head inside. “Relax,” I told him. “It’s still miles
away.”
The words had barely left my lips when I felt a
previously unknown sensation, a kind of quivering
tingle on the back of my neck. The sky had
turned an odd shade of olive gray, and the air
272 John Grogan
seemed to go suddenly dead as though some heavenly
force had grabbed the winds and frozen them
in its grip. Weird, I thought as I paused, leaning
on my shovel to study the sky. That’s when I heard
it: a buzzing, popping, crackling surge of energy,
similar to what you sometimes can hear standing
beneath high-tension power lines. A sort of
pffffffffffft sound filled the air around me, followed
by a brief instant of utter silence. In that
instant, I knew trouble was coming, but I had no
time to react. In the next fraction of a second, the
sky went pure, blindingly white, and an explosion,
the likes of which I had never heard before, not in
any storm, at any fireworks display, at any demolition
site, boomed in my ears. A wall of energy hit
me in the chest like an invisible linebacker. When I
opened my eyes who knows how many seconds
later, I was lying facedown on the ground, sand in
my mouth, my shovel ten feet away, rain pelting
me. Marley was down, too, in his hit-the-deck
stance, and when he saw me raise my head he wiggled
desperately toward me on his belly like a soldier
trying to slide beneath barbed wire. When he
reached me he climbed right on my back and
buried his snout in my neck, frantically licking
me. I looked around for just a second, trying to get
my bearings, and I could see where the lightning
had struck the power-line pole in the corner of
Marley & Me 273
the yard and followed the wire down to the house
about twenty feet from where I had been standing.
The electrical meter on the wall was in charred
ruins.
“Come on!” I yelled, and then Marley and I
were on our feet, sprinting through the downpour
toward the back door as new bolts of lightning
flashed around us. We did not stop until we were
safely inside. I knelt on the floor, soaking wet,
catching my breath, and Marley clambered on me,
licking my face, nibbling my ears, flinging spit and
loose fur all over everything. He was beside himself
with fear, shaking uncontrollably, drool hanging
off his chin. I hugged him, tried to calm him
down. “Jesus, that was close!” I said, and realized
that I was shaking, too. He looked up at me with
those big empathetic eyes that I swore could almost
talk. I was sure I knew what he was trying to
tell me. I’ve been trying to warn you for years
that this stuff can kill you. But would anyone
listen? Now will you take me seriously?
The dog had a point. Maybe his fear of thunder
had not been so irrational after all. Maybe his
panic attacks at the first distant rumblings had
been his way of telling us that Florida’s violent
thunderstorms, the deadliest in the country, were
not to be dismissed with a shrug. Maybe all those
destroyed walls and gouged doors and shredded
274 John Grogan
carpets had been his way of trying to build a
lightning-proof den we could all fit into snugly.
And how had we rewarded him? With scoldings
and tranquilizers.
Our house was dark, the air-conditioning, ceiling
fans, televisions, and several appliances all
blown out. The circuit breaker was fused into a
melted mess. We were about to make some electrician
a very happy man. But I was alive and so was
my trusty sidekick. Jenny and the kids, tucked
safely away in the family room, didn’t even know
the house had been hit. We were all present and
accounted for. What else mattered? I pulled Marley
into my lap, all ninety-seven nervous pounds
of him, and made him a promise right then and
there: Never again would I dismiss his fear of this
deadly force of nature.
C H A P T E R 2 0
Dog Beach
?
As a newspaper columnist, I was always looking
for interesting and quirky stories I could
grab on to. I wrote three columns each week,
which meant that one of the biggest challenges of
the job was coming up with a constant stream of
fresh topics. Each morning I began my day by
scouring the four South Florida daily newspapers,
circling and clipping anything that might be worth
weighing in on. Then it was a matter of finding an
approach or angle that would be mine. My very
first column had come directly from the headlines.
A speeding car crammed with eight teenagers had
flipped into a canal along the edge of the Everglades.
Only the sixteen-year-old driver, her twin
sister, and a third girl had escaped the submerged
car. It was a huge story that I knew I wanted to
come in on, but what was the fresh angle I could
276 John Grogan
call my own? I drove out to the lonely crash sight
hoping for inspiration, and before I even stopped
the car I had found it. The classmates of the five
dead children had transformed the pavement into
a tapestry of spray-painted eulogies. The blacktop
was covered shoulder-to-shoulder for more
than a half mile, and the raw emotion of the outpouring
was palpable. Notebook in hand, I began
copying the words down. “Wasted youth,” said
one message, accompanied by a painted arrow
pointing off the road and into the water. Then,
there in the middle of the communal catharsis, I
found it: a public apology from the young driver,
Jamie Bardol. She wrote in big, loopy letters, a
child’s scrawl: “I wish it would have been me. I’m
sorry.” I had found my column.
Not all topics were so dark. When a retiree received
an eviction notice from her condo because
her pudgy pooch exceeded the weight limit for
pets, I swooped in to meet the offending heavyweight.
When a confused senior citizen crashed
her car into a store while trying to park, fortunately
hurting no one, I was close behind, speaking
to witnesses. The job would take me to a
migrant camp one day, a millionaire’s mansion the
next, and an inner-city street corner the day after
that. I loved the variety; I loved the people I met;
and more than anything I loved the near-total
Marley & Me 277
freedom I was afforded to go wherever I wanted
whenever I wanted in pursuit of whatever topic
tickled my curiosity.
What my bosses did not know was that behind
my journalistic wanderings was a secret agenda: to
use my position as a columnist to engineer as many
shamelessly transparent “working holidays” as I
possibly could. My motto was “When the columnist
has fun, the reader has fun.” Why attend a
deadening tax-adjustment hearing in pursuit of
column fodder when you could be sitting, say, at
an outdoor bar in Key West, large alcoholic beverage
in hand? Someone had to do the dirty work of
telling the story of the lost shakers of salt in Margaritaville;
it might as well be me. I lived for any
excuse to spend a day goofing around, preferably
in shorts and T-shirt, sampling various leisurely
and recreational pursuits that I convinced myself
the public needed someone to fully investigate.
Every profession has its tools of the trade, and
mine included a reporter’s notebook, a bundle of
pens, and a beach towel. I began carrying sunscreen
and a bathing suit in my car as a matter of
routine.
I spent one day blasting through the Everglades
on an airboat and another hiking along the rim of
Lake Okeechobee. I spent a day bicycling scenic
State Road A1A along the Atlantic Ocean so I
278 John Grogan
could report firsthand on the harrowing proposition
of sharing the pavement with confused blueheads
and distracted tourists. I spent a day
snorkeling above the endangered reefs off Key
Largo and another firing off clips of ammunition
at a shooting range with a two-time robbery victim
who swore he would never be victimized
again. I spent a day lolling about on a commercial
fishing boat and a day jamming with a band of aging
rock musicians. One day I simply climbed a
tree and sat for hours enjoying the solitude; a developer
planned to bulldoze the grove in which I
sat to make way for a high-end housing development,
and I figured the least I could do was give
this last remnant of nature amid the concrete jungle
a proper funeral. My biggest coup of all was
when I talked my editors into sending me to the
Bahamas so I could be on the forward edge of a
brewing hurricane that was making its way toward
South Florida. The hurricane veered harmlessly
out to sea, and I spent three days beachside at a
luxury hotel, sipping pina coladas beneath blue
skies.
It was in this vein of journalistic inquiry that I
got the idea to take Marley for a day at the beach.
Up and down South Florida’s heavily used shoreline,
various municipalities had banned pets, and
for good reason. The last thing beachgoers wanted
Marley & Me 279
was a wet, sandy dog pooping and peeing and
shaking all over them as they worked on their
tans. NO PETS signs bristled along nearly every
stretch of sand.
There was one place, though, one small, littleknown
sliver of beach, where there were no signs,
no restrictions, no bans on four-legged water
lovers. The beach was tucked away in an unincorporated
pocket of Palm Beach County about
halfway between West Palm Beach and Boca Raton,
stretching for a few hundred yards and hidden
behind a grassy dune at the end of a dead-end
street. There was no parking, no restroom, no lifeguard,
just an unspoiled stretch of unregulated
white sand meeting endless water. Over the years,
its reputation spread by word of mouth among pet
owners as one of South Florida’s last safe havens
for dogs to come and frolic in the surf without
risking a fine. The place had no official name; unofficially,
everyone knew it as Dog Beach.
Dog Beach operated on its own set of unwritten
rules that had evolved over time, put in place by
consensus of the dog owners who frequented it,
and enforced by peer pressure and a sort of silent
moral code. The dog owners policed themselves
so others would not be tempted to, punishing violators
with withering stares and, if needed, a few
choice words. The rules were simple and few: Ag280
John Grogan
gressive dogs had to stay leashed; all others could
run free. Owners were to bring plastic bags with
them to pick up any droppings their animal might
deposit. All trash, including bagged dog waste,
was to be carted out. Each dog should arrive with
a supply of fresh drinking water. Above all else,
there would be absolutely no fouling of the water.
The etiquette called for owners, upon arriving, to
walk their dogs along the dune line, far from the
ocean’s edge, until their pets relieved themselves.
Then they could bag the waste and safely proceed
to the water.
I had heard about Dog Beach but had never visited.
Now I had my excuse. This forgotten vestige
of the rapidly disappearing Old Florida, the one
that existed before the arrival of waterfront condo
towers, metered beach parking, and soaring real
estate values, was in the news. A pro-development
county commissioner had begun squawking about
this unregulated stretch of beach and asking why
the same rules that applied to other county
beaches should not apply here. She made her intent
clear: outlaw the furry critters, improve public
access, and open this valuable resource to the
masses.
I immediately locked in on the story for what it
was: a perfect excuse to spend a day at the beach
on company time. On a drop-dead-perfect June
Marley & Me 281
morning, I traded my tie and briefcase for swimsuit
and flip-flops and headed with Marley across
the Intracoastal Waterway. I filled the car with as
many beach towels as I could find—and that was
just for the drive over. As always, Marley’s tongue
was hanging out, spit flying everywhere. I felt like
I was on a road trip with Old Faithful. My only regret
was that the windshield wipers weren’t on the
inside.
Following Dog Beach protocol, I parked several
blocks away, where I wouldn’t get a ticket, and began
the long hike in through a sleepy neighborhood
of sixties-vintage bungalows, Marley
leading the charge. About halfway there, a gruff
voice called out, “Hey, Dog Guy!” I froze, convinced
I was about to be busted by an angry
neighbor who wanted me to keep my damn dog
the hell off his beach. But the voice belonged to
another pet owner, who approached me with his
own large dog on a leash and handed me a petition
to sign urging county commissioners to let Dog
Beach stand. Speaking of standing, we would have
stood and chatted, but the way Marley and the
other dog were circling each other, I knew it was
just a matter of seconds before they either (a)
lunged at each other in mortal combat or (b) began
a family. I yanked Marley away and continued
on. Just as we reached the path to the beach, Mar282
John Grogan
ley squatted in the weeds and emptied his bowels.
Perfect. At least that little social nicety was out of
the way. I bagged up the evidence and said, “To
the beach!”
When we crested the dune, I was surprised to
see several people wading in the shallows with
their dogs securely tethered to leashes. What was
this all about? I expected the dogs to be running
free in unbridled, communal harmony. “A sheriff
’s deputy was just here,” one glum dog owner
explained to me. “He said from now on they’re
enforcing the county leash ordinance and we’ll be
fined if our dogs are loose.” It appeared I had arrived
too late to fully enjoy the simple pleasures of
Dog Beach. The police, no doubt at the urging of
the politically connected anti–Dog Beach forces,
were tightening the noose. I obediently walked
Marley along the water’s edge with the other dog
owners, feeling more like I was in a prison exercise
yard than on South Florida’s last unregulated spit
of sand.
I returned with him to my towel and was just
pouring Marley a bowl of water from the canteen
I had lugged along when over the dune came a
shirtless tattooed man in cutoff blue jeans and
work boots, a muscular and fierce-looking pit bull
terrier on a heavy chain at his side. Pit bulls are
known for their aggression, and they were espeMarley
& Me 283
cially notorious during this time in South Florida.
They were the dog breed of choice for gang members,
thugs, and toughs, and often trained to be
vicious. The newspapers were filled with accounts
of unprovoked pit bull attacks, sometimes fatal,
against both animals and humans. The owner
must have noticed me recoiling because he called
out, “Don’t you worry. Killer’s friendly. He don’t
never fight other dogs.” I was just beginning to
exhale with relief when he added with obvious
pride, “But you should see him rip open a wild
hog! I’ll tell you, he can get it down and gutted in
about fifteen seconds.”
Marley and Killer the Pig-Slaying Pit Bull
strained at their leashes, circling, sniffing furiously
at each other. Marley had never been in a fight in
his life and was so much bigger than most other
dogs that he had never been intimidated by a challenge,
either. Even when a dog attempted to pick a
fight, he didn’t take the hint. He would merely
pounce into a playful stance, butt up, tail wagging,
a dumb, happy grin on his face. But he had never
before been confronted by a trained killer, a gutter
of wild game. I pictured Killer lunging without
warning for Marley’s throat and not letting go.
Killer’s owner was unconcerned. “Unless you’re a
wild hog, he’ll just lick you to death,” he said.
I told him the cops had just been here and were
284 John Grogan
going to ticket people who didn’t obey the leash
ordinance. “I guess they’re cracking down,” I said.
“That’s bullshit!” he yelled, and spit into the
sand. “I’ve been bringing my dogs to this beach
for years. You don’t need no leash at Dog Beach.
Bullshit!” With that he unclipped the heavy chain,
and Killer galloped across the sand and into the
water. Marley reared back on his hind legs, bouncing
up and down. He looked at Killer and then up
at me. He looked back at Killer and back at me.
His paws padded nervously on the sand, and he let
out a soft, sustained whimper. If he could talk, I
knew what he would have asked. I scanned the
dune line; no cops anywhere in sight. I looked at
Marley. Please! Please! Pretty please! I’ll be
good. I promise.
“Go ahead, let him loose,” Killer’s owner said.
“A dog ain’t meant to spend his life on the end of a
rope.”
“Oh, what the hell,” I said, and unsnapped the
leash. Marley dashed for the water, kicking sand
all over us as he blasted off. He crashed into the
surf just as a breaker rolled in, tossing him under
the water. A second later his head reappeared, and
the instant he regained his footing he threw a
cross-body block at Killer the Pig-Slaying Pit
Bull, knocking both of them off their feet. Together
they rolled beneath a wave, and I held my
Marley & Me 285
breath, wondering if Marley had just crossed the
line that would throw Killer into a homicidal,
Lab-butchering fury. But when they popped back
up again, their tails were wagging, their mouths
grinning. Killer jumped on Marley’s back and
Marley on Killer’s, their jaws clamping playfully
around each other’s throats. They chased each
other up the waterline and back again, sending
plumes of spray flying on either side of them.
They pranced, they danced, they wrestled, they
dove. I don’t think I had ever before, or have ever
since, witnessed such unadulterated joy.
The other dog owners took our cue, and pretty
soon all the dogs, about a dozen in total, were running
free. The dogs all got along splendidly; the
owners all followed the rules. It was Dog Beach as
it was meant to be. This was the real Florida, unblemished
and unchecked, the Florida of a forgotten,
simpler time and place, immune to the march
of progress.
There was only one small problem. As the
morning progressed, Marley kept lapping up salt
water. I followed behind him with the bowl of
fresh water, but he was too distracted to drink.
Several times I led him right up to the bowl and
stuck his nose into it, but he spurned the fresh water
as if it were vinegar, wanting only to return to
his new best friend, Killer, and the other dogs.
286 John Grogan
Out in the shallows, he paused from his play to
lap up even more salt water. “Stop that, you
dummy!” I yelled at him. “You’re going to make
yourself . . .” Before I could finish my thought, it
happened. A strange glaze settled over his eyes
and a horrible churning sound began to erupt
from his gut. He arched his back high and opened
and shut his mouth several times, as if trying to
clear something from his craw. His shoulders
heaved; his abdomen contorted. I hurried to finish
my sentence: “. . . sick.”
The instant the word left my lips, Marley fulfilled
the prophecy, committing the ultimate Dog
Beach heresy. GAAAAAAAAACK!
I raced to pull him out of the water, but it was
too late. Everything was coming up.
GAAAAAAAAACK! I could see last night’s dog
chow floating on the water’s surface, looking surprisingly
like it had before it went in. Bobbing
among the nuggets were undigested corn kernels
he had swiped off the kids’ plates, a milk-jug cap,
and the severed head of a tiny plastic soldier. The
entire evacuation took no more than three seconds,
and the instant his stomach was emptied he
looked up brightly, apparently fully recovered
with no lingering aftereffects, as if to say, Now
that I’ve got that taken care of, who wants to
bodysurf ? I glanced nervously around, but no one
Marley & Me 287
had seemed to notice. The other dog owners were
occupied with their own dogs farther down the
beach, a mother not far away was focused on helping
her toddler make a sandcastle, and the few
sunbathers scattered about were lying flat on their
backs, eyes closed. Thank God! I thought, as I
waded into Marley’s puke zone, roiling the water
with my feet as nonchalantly as I could to disperse
the evidence. How embarrassing would that
have been? At any rate, I told myself, despite the
technical violation of the No. 1 Dog Beach Rule,
we had caused no real harm. After all, it was just
undigested food; the fish would be thankful for the
meal, wouldn’t they? I even picked out the milkjug
cap and soldier’s head and put them in my
pocket so as not to litter.
“Listen, you,” I said sternly, grabbing Marley
around the snout and forcing him to look me in
the eye. “Stop drinking salt water. What kind of a
dog doesn’t know enough to not drink salt water?”
I considered yanking him off the beach and
cutting our adventure short, but he seemed fine
now. There couldn’t possibly be anything left in
his stomach. The damage was done, and we had
gotten away with it undetected. I released him and
he streaked down the beach to rejoin Killer.
What I had failed to consider was that, while
Marley’s stomach may have been completely emp288
John Grogan
tied, his bowels were not. The sun was reflecting
blindingly off the water, and I squinted to see
Marley frolicking among the other dogs. As I
watched, he abruptly disengaged from the play
and began turning in tight circles in the shallow
water. I knew the circling maneuver well. It was
what he did every morning in the backyard as he
prepared to defecate. It was a ritual for him, as
though not just any spot would do for the gift he
was about to bestow on the world. Sometimes
the circling could go on for a minute or more as
he sought just the perfect patch of earth. And
now he was circling in the shallows of Dog Beach,
on that brave frontier where no dog had dared to
poop before. He was entering his squatting position.
And this time, he had an audience. Killer’s
dad and several other dog owners were standing
within a few yards of him. The mother and her
daughter had turned from their sandcastle to gaze
out to sea. A couple approached, walking hand
in hand along the water’s edge. “No,” I whispered.
“Please, God, no.”
“Hey!” someone yelled out. “Get your dog!”
“Stop him!” someone else shouted.
As alarmed voices cried out, the sunbathers
propped themselves up to see what all the commotion
was about.
I burst into a full sprint, racing to get to him beMarley
& Me 289
fore it was too late. If I could just reach him and
yank him out of his squat before his bowels began
to move, I might be able to interrupt the whole
awful humiliation, at least long enough to get him
safely up on the dune. As I raced toward him, I
had what can only be described as an out-of-body
experience. Even as I ran, I was looking down
from above, the scene unfolding one frozen frame
at a time. Each step seemed to last an eternity.
Each foot hit the sand with a dull thud. My arms
swung through the air; my face contorted in a sort
of agonized grimace. As I ran, I absorbed the
slow-mo frames around me: a young woman sunbather,
holding her top in place over her breasts
with one hand, her other hand plastered over her
mouth; the mother scooping up her child and retreating
from the water’s edge; the dog owners,
their faces twisted with disgust, pointing; Killer’s
dad, his leathery neck bulging, yelling. Marley
was done circling now and in full squat position,
looking up to the heavens as if saying a little
prayer. And I heard my own voice rising above the
din and uncoiling in an oddly guttural, distorted,
drawn-out scream: “Noooooooooooooooo!”
I was almost there, just feet from him. “Marley,
no!” I screamed. “No, Marley, no! No! No! No!”
It was no use. Just as I reached him, he exploded
in a burst of watery diarrhea. Everyone was
290 John Grogan
jumping back now, recoiling, fleeing to higher
ground. Owners were grabbing their dogs. Sunbathers
scooped up their towels. Then it was over.
Marley trotted out of the water onto the beach,
shook off with gusto, and turned to look at me,
panting happily. I pulled a plastic bag out of my
pocket and held it helplessly in the air. I could see
immediately it would do no good. The waves
crashed in, spreading Marley’s mess across the
water and up onto the beach.
“Dude,” Killer’s dad said in a voice that made
me appreciate how the wild hogs must feel at the
instant of Killer’s final, fatal lunge. “That was not
cool.”
No, it wasn’t cool at all. Marley and I had violated
the sacred rule of Dog Beach. We had fouled
the water, not once but twice, and ruined the
morning for everyone. It was time to beat a quick
retreat.
“Sorry,” I mumbled to Killer’s owner as I
snapped the leash on Marley. “He swallowed a
bunch of seawater.”
Back at the car, I threw a towel over Marley and
vigorously rubbed him down. The more I rubbed,
the more he shook, and soon I was covered in sand
and spray and fur. I wanted to be mad at him. I
wanted to strangle him. But it was too late now.
Besides, who wouldn’t get sick drinking a half
Marley & Me 291
gallon of salt water? As with so many of his misdeeds,
this one was not malicious or premeditated.
It wasn’t as though he had disobeyed a command
or set out to intentionally humiliate me. He simply
had to go and he went. True, at the wrong place
and the wrong time and in front of all the wrong
people. I knew he was a victim of his own diminished
mental capacity. He was the only beast on
the whole beach dumb enough to guzzle seawater.
The dog was defective. How could I hold that
against him?
“You don’t have to look so pleased with yourself,”
I said as I loaded him into the backseat. But
pleased he was. He could not have looked happier
had I bought him his own Caribbean island. What
he did not know was that this would be his last
time setting a paw in any body of salt water. His
days—or rather, hours—as a beach bum were behind
him. “Well, Salty Dog,” I said on the drive
home, “you’ve done it this time. If dogs are
banned from Dog Beach, we’ll know why.” It
would take several more years, but in the end
that’s exactly what happened.

C H A P T E R 2 1
A Northbound Plane
?
Shortly after Colleen turned two, I inadvertently
set off a fateful series of events that
would lead us to leave Florida. And I did it with
the click of a mouse. I had wrapped up my column
early for the day and found myself with a half
hour to kill as I waited for my editor. On a whim I
decided to check out the website of a magazine I
had been subscribing to since not long after we
bought our West Palm Beach house. The magazine
was Organic Gardening, which was launched
in 1942 by the eccentric J. I. Rodale and went on
to become the bible of the back-to-the-earth
movement that blossomed in the 1960s and 1970s.
Rodale had been a New York City businessman
specializing in electrical switches when his health
began to fail. Instead of turning to modern medicine
to solve his problems, he moved from the city
294 John Grogan
to a small farm outside the tiny borough of Emmaus,
Pennsylvania, and began playing in the dirt.
He had a deep distrust of technology and believed
the modern farming and gardening methods
sweeping the country, nearly all of them relying
on chemical pesticides and fertilizers, were not the
saviors of American agriculture they purported to
be. Rodale’s theory was that the chemicals were
gradually poisoning the earth and all of its inhabitants.
He began experimenting with farming techniques
that mimicked nature. On his farm, he
built huge compost piles of decaying plant matter,
which, once the material had turned to rich black
humus, he used as fertilizer and a natural soil
builder. He covered the dirt in his garden rows
with a thick carpet of straw to suppress weeds and
retain moisture. He planted cover crops of clover
and alfalfa and then plowed them under to return
nutrients to the soil. Instead of spraying for insects,
he unleashed thousands of ladybugs and
other beneficial insects that devoured the destructive
ones. He was a bit of a kook, but his theories
proved themselves. His garden flourished and so
did his health, and he trumpeted his successes in
the pages of his magazine.
By the time I started reading Organic Gardening,
J. I. Rodale was long dead and so was his son,
Robert, who had built his father’s business, Rodale
Marley & Me 295
Press, into a multimillion-dollar publishing company.
The magazine was not very well written or
edited; reading it, you got the impression it was
put out by a group of dedicated but amateurish
devotees of J.I.’s philosophy, serious gardeners
with no professional training as journalists; later I
would learn this was exactly the case. Regardless,
the organic philosophy increasingly made sense to
me, especially after Jenny’s miscarriage and our
suspicion that it might have had something to do
with the pesticides we had used. By the time
Colleen was born, our yard was a little organic oasis
in a suburban sea of chemical weed-and-feed
applications and pesticides. Passersby often
stopped to admire our thriving front garden, which
I tended with increasing passion, and they almost
always asked the same question: “What do you put
on it to make it look so good?” When I answered,
“I don’t,” they looked at me uncomfortably, as
though they had just stumbled upon something
unspeakably subversive going on in well-ordered,
homogeneous, conformist Boca Raton.
That afternoon in my office, I clicked through
the screens at organicgardening.com and eventually
found my way to a button that said “Career
Opportunities.” I clicked on it, why I’m still not
sure. I loved my job as a columnist; loved the daily
interaction I had with readers; loved the freedom
296 John Grogan
to pick my own topics and be as serious or as flippant
as I wanted to be. I loved the newsroom and
the quirky, brainy, neurotic, idealistic people it attracted.
I loved being in the middle of the biggest
story of the day. I had no desire to leave newspapers
for a sleepy publishing company in the middle
of nowhere. Still, I began scrolling through the
Rodale job postings, more idly curious than anything,
but midway down the list I stopped cold.
Organic Gardening, the company’s flagship magazine,
was seeking a new managing editor. My
heart skipped a beat. I had often daydreamed
about the huge difference a decent journalist could
make at the magazine, and now here was my
chance. It was crazy; it was ridiculous. A career
editing stories about cauliflower and compost?
Why would I want to do that?
That night I told Jenny about the opening, fully
expecting her to tell me I was insane for even considering
it. Instead she surprised me by encouraging
me to send a resume. The idea of leaving the
heat and humidity and congestion and crime of
South Florida for a simpler life in the country appealed
to her. She missed four seasons and hills.
She missed falling leaves and spring daffodils. She
missed icicles and apple cider. She wanted our kids
and, as ridiculous as it sounds, our dog to experience
the wonders of a winter blizzard. “Marley’s
Marley & Me 297
never even chased a snowball,” she said, stroking
his fur with her bare foot.
“Now, there’s a good reason for changing careers,”
I said.
“You should do it just to satisfy your curiosity,”
she said. “See what happens. If they offer it to
you, you can always turn them down.”
I had to admit I shared her dream about moving
north again. As much as I enjoyed our dozen years
in South Florida, I was a northern native who had
never learned to stop missing three things: rolling
hills, changing seasons, and open land. Even as I
grew to love Florida with its mild winters, spicy
food, and comically irascible mix of people, I did
not stop dreaming of someday escaping to my
own private paradise—not a postage-stamp-sized
lot in the heart of hyperprecious Boca Raton but a
real piece of land where I could dig in the dirt,
chop my own firewood, and tromp through the
forest, my dog at my side.
I applied, fully convincing myself it was just a
lark. Two weeks later the phone rang and it was J.
I. Rodale’s granddaughter, Maria Rodale. I had
sent my letter to “Dear Human Resources” and
was so surprised to be hearing from the owner of
the company that I asked her to repeat her last
name. Maria had taken a personal interest in the
magazine her grandfather had founded, and she
298 John Grogan
was intent on returning it to its former glory. She
was convinced she needed a professional journalist,
not another earnest organic gardener, to do
that, and she wanted to take on more challenging
and important stories about the environment, genetic
engineering, factory farming, and the burgeoning
organic movement.
I arrived for the job interview fully intending to
play hard to get, but I was hooked the moment I
drove out of the airport and onto the first curving,
two-lane country road. At every turn was another
postcard: a stone farmhouse here, a covered
bridge there. Icy brooks gurgled down hillsides,
and furrowed farmland stretched to the horizon
like God’s own golden robes. It didn’t help that it
was spring and every last tree in the Lehigh Valley
was in full, glorious bloom. At a lonely country
stop sign, I stepped out of my rental car and stood
in the middle of the pavement. For as far as I
could see in any direction, there was nothing but
woods and meadows. Not a car, not a person, not a
building. At the first pay phone I could find, I
called Jenny. “You’re not going to believe this
place,” I said.
Two months later the movers had the entire contents
of our Boca house loaded into a gigantic
Marley & Me 299
truck. An auto carrier arrived to haul off our car
and minivan. We turned the house keys over to the
new owners and spent our last night in Florida
sleeping on the floor of a neighbor’s home, Marley
sprawled out in the middle of us. “Indoor camping!”
Patrick shrieked.
The next morning I arose early and took Marley
for what would be his last walk on Florida soil. He
sniffed and tugged and pranced as we circled the
block, stopping to lift his leg on every shrub and
mailbox we came to, happily oblivious to the
abrupt change I was about to foist on him. I had
bought a sturdy plastic travel crate to carry him on
the airplane, and following Dr. Jay’s advice, I
clamped open Marley’s jaws after our walk and
slipped a double dose of tranquilizers down his
throat. By the time our neighbor dropped us off at
Palm Beach International Airport, Marley was
red-eyed and exceptionally mellow. We could have
strapped him to a rocket and he wouldn’t have
minded.
In the terminal, the Grogan clan cut a fine form:
two wildly excited little boys racing around in circles,
a hungry baby in a stroller, two stressed-out
parents, and one very stoned dog. Rounding out
the lineup was the rest of our menagerie: two
frogs, three goldfish, a hermit crab, a snail named
Sluggy, and a box of live crickets for feeding the
300 John Grogan
frogs. As we waited in line at check-in, I assembled
the plastic pet carrier. It was the biggest one I
could find, but when we reached the counter, a
woman in uniform looked at Marley, looked at the
crate, looked back at Marley, and said, “We can’t
allow that dog aboard in that container. He’s too
big for it.”
“The pet store said this was the ‘large dog’
size,” I pleaded.
“FAA regulations require that the dog can
freely stand up inside and turn fully around,” she
explained, adding skeptically, “Go ahead, give it
a try.”
I opened the gate and called Marley, but he was
not about to voluntarily walk into this mobile jail
cell. I pushed and prodded, coaxed and cajoled; he
wasn’t budging. Where were the dog biscuits
when I needed them? I searched my pockets for
something to bribe him with, finally fishing out a
tin of breath mints. This was as good as it was going
to get. I took one out and held it in front of his
nose. “Want a mint, Marley? Go get the mint!”
and I tossed it into the crate. Sure enough, he took
the bait and blithely entered the box.
The lady was right; he didn’t quite fit. He had
to scrunch down so his head wouldn’t hit the ceiling;
even with his nose touching the back wall, his
butt stuck out the open door. I scrunched his tail
Marley & Me 301
down and closed the gate, nudging his rear inside.
“What did I tell you?” I said, hoping she would
consider it a comfortable fit.
“He’s got to be able to turn around,” she said.
“Turn around, boy,” I beckoned to him, giving
a little whistle. “Come on, turn around.” He shot
a glance over his shoulder at me with those doper
eyes, his head scraping the ceiling, as if awaiting
instructions on just how to accomplish such a feat.
If he could not turn around, the airline was not
letting him aboard the flight. I checked my watch.
We had twelve minutes left to get through security,
down the concourse, and onto the plane.
“Come here, Marley!” I said more desperately.
“Come on!” I snapped my fingers, rattled the
metal gate, made kissy-kissy sounds. “Come on,”
I pleaded. “Turn around.” I was about to drop to
my knees and beg when I heard a crash, followed
almost immediately by Patrick’s voice.
“Oops,” he said.
“The frogs are loose!” Jenny screamed, jumping
into action.
“Froggy! Croaky! Come back!” the boys yelled
in unison.
My wife was on all fours now, racing around the
terminal as the frogs cannily stayed one hop ahead
of her. Passersby began to stop and stare. From a
distance you could not see the frogs at all, just the
302 John Grogan
crazy lady with the diaper bag hanging from her
neck, crawling around like she had started the
morning off with a little too much moonshine.
From their expressions, I could tell they fully expected
her to start howling at any moment.
“Excuse me a second,” I said as calmly as I
could to the airline worker, then joined Jenny on
my hands and knees.
After doing our part to entertain the earlymorning
travel crowd, we finally captured Froggy
and Croaky just as they were ready to make their
final leap for freedom out the automatic doors. As
we turned back, I heard a mighty ruckus coming
from the dog crate. The entire box shivered and
lurched across the floor, and when I peered in I
saw that Marley had somehow gotten himself
turned around. “See?” I said to the baggage supervisor.
“He can turn around, no problem.”
“Okay,” she said with a frown. “But you’re really
pushing it.”
Two workers lifted Marley and his crate onto a
dolly and wheeled him away. The rest of us raced
for our plane, arriving at the gate just as the flight
attendants were closing the hatch. It occurred to
me that if we missed the flight, Marley would be
arriving alone in Pennsylvania, a scene of potential
pandemonium I did not even want to contemplate.
“Wait! We’re here!” I shouted, pushing
Marley & Me 303
Colleen ahead of me, the boys and Jenny trailing
by fifty feet.
As we settled into our seats, I finally allowed
myself to exhale. We had gotten Marley squared
away. We had captured the frogs. We had made the
flight. Next stop, Allentown, Pennsylvania. I
could relax now. Through the window I watched
as a tram pulled up with the dog crate sitting on it.
“Look,” I said to the kids. “There’s Marley.”
They waved out the window and called, “Hi,
Waddy!”
As the engines revved and the flight attendant
went over the safety precautions, I pulled out a
magazine. That’s when I noticed Jenny freeze in the
row in front of me. Then I heard it, too. From below
our feet, deep in the bowels of the plane, came
a sound, muffled but undeniable. It was pitifully
mournful sound, a sort of primal call that started
low and rose as it went. Oh, dear Jesus, he’s down
there howling. For the record, Labrador retrievers
do not howl. Beagles howl. Wolves howl. Labs do
not howl, at least not well. Marley had attempted to
howl twice before, both times in answer to a passing
police siren, tossing back his head, forming his
mouth into an O shape, and letting loose the most
pathetic sound I have ever heard, more like he was
gargling than answering the call of the wild. But
now, no question about it, he was howling.
304 John Grogan
The passengers began to look up from their
newspapers and novels. A flight attendant handing
out pillows paused and cocked her head quizzically.
A woman across the aisle from us looked at
her husband and asked: “Listen. Do you hear
that? I think it’s a dog.” Jenny stared straight
ahead. I stared into my magazine. If anyone
asked, we were denying ownership.
“Waddy’s sad,” Patrick said.
No, son, I wanted to correct him, some strange
dog we have never seen before and have no
knowledge of is sad. But I just pulled my magazine
higher over my face, following the advice of
the immortal Richard Milhous Nixon: plausible
deniability. The jet engines whined and the plane
taxied down the runway, drowning out Marley’s
dirge. I pictured him down below in the dark hold,
alone, scared, confused, stoned, not even able to
fully stand up. I imagined the roaring engines,
which in Marley’s warped mind might be just another
thunderous assault by random lightning
bolts determined to take him out. The poor guy. I
wasn’t willing to admit he was mine, but I knew I
would be spending the whole flight worrying
about him.
The airplane was barely off the ground when I
heard another little crash, and this time it was
Conor who said, “Oops.” I looked down and then,
Marley & Me 305
once again, stared straight into my magazine.
Plausible deniability. After several seconds, I
furtively glanced around. When I was pretty sure
no one was staring, I leaned forward and whispered
into Jenny’s ear: “Don’t look now, but the
crickets are loose.”

C H A P T E R 2 2
In the Land of Pencils
?
We settled into a rambling house on two
acres perched on the side of a steep hill.
Or perhaps it was a small mountain; the locals
seemed to disagree on this point. Our property
had a meadow where we could pick wild raspberries,
a woods where I could chop logs to my heart’s
content, and a small, spring-fed creek where the
kids and Marley soon found they could get exceptionally
muddy. There was a fireplace and endless
garden possibilities and a white-steepled church
on the next hill, visible from our kitchen window
when the leaves dropped in the fall.
Our new home even came with a neighbor right
out of Central Casting, an orange-bearded bear of
a man who lived in a 1790s stone farmhouse and
on Sundays enjoyed sitting on his back porch and
shooting his rifle into the woods just for fun, much
308 John Grogan
to Marley’s unnerved dismay. On our first day in
our new house, he walked over with a bottle of
homemade wild-cherry wine and a basket of the
biggest blackberries I had ever seen. He introduced
himself as Digger. As we surmised from the
nickname, Digger made his living as an excavator.
If we had any holes we needed dug or earth we
wanted moved, he instructed, we were to just give
a shout and he’d swing by with one of his big machines.
“And if you hit a deer with your car, come
get me,” he said with a wink. “We’ll butcher it up
and split the meat before the game officer knows a
thing.” No doubt about it, we weren’t in Boca
anymore.
There was only one thing missing from our new
bucolic existence. Minutes after we pulled into the
driveway of our new house, Conor looked up at
me, big tears rolling out of his eyes, and declared:
“I thought there were going to be pencils in Pencilvania.”
For our boys, now ages seven and five,
this was a near deal breaker. Given the name of
the state we were adopting, both of them arrived
fully expecting to see bright yellow writing implements
hanging like berries from every tree and
shrub, there for the plucking. They were crushed
to learn otherwise.
What our property lacked in school supplies, it
made up for in skunks, opossums, woodchucks,
Marley & Me 309
and poison ivy, which flourished along the edge of
our woods and snaked up the trees, giving me hives
just to look at it. One morning I glanced out the
kitchen window as I fumbled with the coffeemaker
and there staring back at me was a magnificent
eight-point buck. Another morning a family of
wild turkeys gobbled its way across the backyard.
As Marley and I walked through the woods down
the hill from our house one Saturday, we came
upon a mink trapper laying snares. A mink trapper!
Almost in my backyard! What the Bocahontas
set would have given for that connection.
Living in the country was at once peaceful,
charming—and just a little lonely. The Pennsylvania
Dutch were polite but cautious of outsiders.
And we were definitely outsiders. After South
Florida’s legion crowds and lines, I should have
been ecstatic about the solitude. Instead, at least in
the early months, I found myself darkly ruminating
over our decision to move to a place where so
few others apparently wanted to live.
Marley, on the other hand, had no such misgivings.
Except for the crack of Digger’s gun going
off, the new country lifestyle fit him splendidly.
For a dog with more energy than sense, what
wasn’t to like? He raced across the lawn, crashed
through the brambles, splashed through the creek.
His life’s mission was to catch one of the countless
310 John Grogan
rabbits that considered my garden their own personal
salad bar. He would spot a rabbit munching
the lettuce and barrel off down the hill in hot pursuit,
ears flapping behind him, paws pounding the
ground, his bark filling the air. He was about as
stealthy as a marching band and never got closer
than a dozen feet before his intended prey scampered
off into the woods to safety. True to his
trademark, he remained eternally optimistic that
success waited just around the bend. He would
loop back, tail wagging, not discouraged in the
least, and five minutes later do it all over again.
Fortunately, he was no better at sneaking up on
the skunks.
Autumn came and with it a whole new mischievous
game: Attack the Leaf Pile. In Florida, trees
did not shed their leaves in the fall, and Marley
was positively convinced the foliage drifting down
from the skies now was a gift meant just for him.
As I raked the orange and yellow leaves into giant
heaps, Marley would sit and watch patiently, biding
his time, waiting until just the right moment to
strike. Only after I had gathered a mighty towering
pile would he slink forward, crouched low.
Every few steps, he would stop, front paw raised,
to sniff the air like a lion on the Serengeti stalking
an unsuspecting gazelle. Then, just as I leaned on
Marley & Me 311
my rake to admire my handiwork, he would lunge,
charging across the lawn in a series of bounding
leaps, flying for the last several feet and landing in
a giant belly flop in the middle of the pile, where
he growled and rolled and flailed and scratched
and snapped, and, for reasons not clear to me,
fiercely chased his tail, not stopping until my neat
leaf pile was scattered across the lawn again. Then
he would sit up amid his handiwork, the shredded
remains of leaves clinging to his fur, and give me a
self-satisfied look, as if his contribution were an
integral part of the leaf-gathering process.
Our first Christmas in Pennsylvania was supposed
to be white. Jenny and I had had to do a sales job
on Patrick and Conor to convince them that leaving
their home and friends in Florida was for the
best, and one of the big selling points was the
promise of snow. Not just any kind of snow, but
deep, fluffy, made-for-postcards snow, the kind
that fell from the sky in big silent flakes, piled into
drifts, and was of just the right consistency for
shaping into snowmen. And snow for Christmas
Day, well, that was best of all, the Holy Grail of
northern winter experiences. We wantonly spun a
Currier and Ives image for them of waking up on
312 John Grogan
Christmas morning to a starkly white landscape,
unblemished except for the solitary tracks of
Santa’s sleigh outside our front door.
In the week leading up to the big day, the three
of them sat in the window together for hours,
their eyes glued on the leaden sky as if they could
will it to open and discharge its load. “Come on,
snow!” the kids chanted. They had never seen it;
Jenny and I hadn’t seen it for the last quarter of
our lives. We wanted snow, but the clouds would
not give it up. A few days before Christmas, the
whole family piled into the minivan and drove to a
farm a half mile away where we cut a spruce tree
and enjoyed a free hayride and hot apple cider
around a bonfire. It was the kind of classic northern
holiday moment we had missed in Florida, but
one thing was absent. Where was the damn snow?
Jenny and I were beginning to regret how recklessly
we had hyped the inevitable first snowfall.
As we hauled our fresh-cut tree home, the sweet
scent of its sap filling the van, the kids complained
about getting gypped. First no pencils, now no
snow; what else had their parents lied to them
about?
Christmas morning found a brand-new toboggan
beneath the tree and enough snow gear to
outfit an excursion to Antarctica, but the view out
our windows remained all bare branches, dorMarley
& Me 313
mant lawns, and brown cornfields. I built a cheery
fire in the fireplace and told the children to be patient.
The snow would come when the snow
would come.
New Year’s arrived and still it did not come.
Even Marley seemed antsy, pacing and gazing out
the windows, whimpering softly, as if he too felt
he had been sold a bill of goods. The kids returned
to school after the holiday, and still nothing.
At the breakfast table they gazed sullenly at
me, the father who had betrayed them. I began
making lame excuses, saying things like “Maybe
little boys and girls in some other place need the
snow more than we do.”
“Yeah, right, Dad,” Patrick said.
Three weeks into the new year, the snow finally
rescued me from my purgatory of guilt. It came
during the night after everyone was asleep, and
Patrick was the first to sound the alarm, running
into our bedroom at dawn and yanking open the
blinds. “Look! Look!” he squealed. “It’s here!”
Jenny and I sat up in bed to behold our vindication.
A white blanket covered the hillsides and
cornfields and pine trees and rooftops, stretching
to the horizon. “Of course, it’s here,” I answered
nonchalantly. “What did I tell you?”
The snow was nearly a foot deep and still coming
down. Soon Conor and Colleen came chugging
314 John Grogan
down the hall, thumbs in mouths, blankies trailing
behind them. Marley was up and stretching, banging
his tail into everything, sensing the excitement.
I turned to Jenny and said, “I guess going
back to sleep isn’t an option,” and when she confirmed
it was not, I turned to the kids and
shouted, “Okay, snow bunnies, let’s suit up!”
For the next half hour we wrestled with zippers
and leggings and buckles and hoods and gloves. By
the time we were done, the kids looked like mummies
and our kitchen like the staging area for the
Winter Olympics. And competing in the Goof on
Ice Downhill Competition, Large Canine Division,
was . . . Marley the Dog. I opened the front
door and before anyone else could step out, Marley
blasted past us, knocking the well-bundled
Colleen over in the process. The instant his paws
hit the strange white stuff—Ah, wet! Ah, cold!—
he had second thoughts and attempted an abrupt
about-face. As anyone who has ever driven a car in
snow knows, sudden braking coupled with tight
U-turns is never a good idea.
Marley went into a full skid, his rear end spinning
out in front of him. He dropped down on one
flank briefly before bouncing upright again just in
time to somersault down the front porch steps and
headfirst into a snowdrift. When he popped back
Marley & Me 315
up a second later, he looked like a giant powdered
doughnut. Except for a black nose and two brown
eyes, he was completely dusted in white. The
Abominable Snowdog. Marley did not know what
to make of this foreign substance. He jammed his
nose deep into it and let loose a violent sneeze. He
snapped at it and rubbed his face in it. Then, as if
an invisible hand reached down from the heavens
and jabbed him with a giant shot of adrenaline, he
took off at full throttle, racing around the yard in
a series of giant, loping leaps interrupted every
several feet by a random somersault or nosedive.
Snow was almost as much fun as raiding the
neighbors’ trash.
To follow Marley’s tracks in the snow was to begin
to understand his warped mind. His path was
filled with abrupt twists and turns and aboutfaces,
with erratic loops and figure-eights, with
corkscrews and triple lutzes, as though he were
following some bizarre algorithm that only he
could understand. Soon the kids were taking his
lead, spinning and rolling and frolicking, snow
packing into every crease and crevice of their outerwear.
Jenny came out with buttered toast, mugs
of hot cocoa, and an announcement: school was
canceled. I knew there was no way I was getting
my little two-wheel-drive Nissan out the driveway
316 John Grogan
anytime soon, let alone up and down the unplowed
mountain roads, and I declared an official
snow day for me, too.
I scraped the snow away from the stone circle I
had built that fall for backyard campfires and soon
had a crackling blaze going. The kids glided
screaming down the hill in the toboggan, past the
campfire and to the edge of the woods, Marley
chasing behind them. I looked at Jenny and asked,
“If someone had told you a year ago that your kids
would be sledding right out their back door, would
you have believed them?”
“Not a chance,” she said, then wound up and
unleashed a snowball that thumped me in the
chest. The snow was in her hair, a blush in her
cheeks, her breath rising in a cloud above her.
“Come here and kiss me,” I said.
Later, as the kids warmed themselves by the
fire, I decided to try a run on the toboggan, something
I hadn’t done since I was a teenager. “Care to
join me?” I asked Jenny.
“Sorry, Jean Claude, you’re on your own,” she
said.
I positioned the toboggan at the top of the hill
and lay back on it, propped up on my elbows, my
feet tucked inside its nose. I began rocking to get
moving. Not often did Marley have the opportunity
to look down at me, and having me prone like
Marley & Me 317
that was tantamount to an invitation. He sidled up
to me and sniffed my face. “What do you want?” I
asked, and that was all the welcome he needed. He
clambered aboard, straddling me and dropping
onto my chest. “Get off me, you big lug!” I
screamed. But it was too late. We were already
creeping forward, gathering speed as we began
our descent.
“Bon voyage!” Jenny yelled behind us.
Off we went, snow flying, Marley plastered on
top of me, licking me lustily all over my face as we
careered down the slope. With our combined
weight, we had considerably more momentum
than the kids had, and we barreled past the point
where their tracks petered out. “Hold on, Marley!”
I screamed. “We’re going into the woods!”
We shot past a large walnut tree, then between
two wild cherry trees, miraculously avoiding all
unyielding objects as we crashed through the underbrush,
brambles tearing at us. It suddenly occurred
to me that just up ahead was the bank
leading down several feet to the creek, still unfrozen.
I tried to kick my feet out to use as brakes,
but they were stuck. The bank was steep, nearly a
sheer drop-off, and we were going over. I had time
only to wrap my arms around Marley, squeeze my
eyes shut, and yell, “Whoaaaaaa!”
Our toboggan shot over the bank and dropped
318 John Grogan
out from beneath us. I felt like I was in one of
those classic cartoon moments, suspended in
midair for an endless second before falling to ruinous
injury. Only in this cartoon I was welded to a
madly salivating Labrador retriever. We clung to
each other as we crash-landed into a snowbank
with a soft poof and, hanging half off the toboggan,
slid to the water’s edge. I opened my eyes and
took stock of my condition. I could wiggle my toes
and fingers and rotate my neck; nothing was broken.
Marley was up and prancing around me, eager
to do it all over again. I stood up with a groan
and, brushing myself off, said, “I’m getting too
old for this stuff.” In the months ahead it would
become increasingly obvious that Marley was, too.
Sometime toward the end of that first winter in
Pennsylvania I began to notice Marley had moved
quietly out of middle age and into retirement. He
had turned nine that December, and ever so
slightly he was slowing down. He still had his
bursts of unbridled, adrenaline-pumped energy,
as he did on the day of the first snowfall, but they
were briefer now and farther apart. He was content
to snooze most of the day, and on walks he
tired before I did, a first in our relationship. One
late-winter day, the temperature above freezing
Marley & Me 319
and the scent of spring thaw in the air, I walked
him down our hill and up the next one, even
steeper than ours, where the white church perched
on the crest beside an old cemetery filled with
Civil War veterans. It was a walk I took often and
one that even the previous fall Marley had made
without visible effort, despite the angle of the
climb, which always got us both panting. This
time, though, he was falling behind. I coaxed him
along, calling out words of encouragement, but it
was like watching a toy slowly wind down as its
battery went dead. Marley just did not have the
oomph needed to make it to the top. I stopped to
let him rest before continuing, something I had
never had to do before. “You’re not going soft on
me, are you?” I asked, leaning over and stroking
his face with my gloved hands. He looked up at
me, his eyes bright, his nose wet, not at all concerned
about his flagging energy. He had a contented
but tuckered-out look on his face, as
though life got no better than this, sitting along
the side of a country road on a crisp late-winter’s
day with your master at your side. “If you think
I’m carrying you,” I said, “forget it.”
The sun bathed over him, and I noticed just
how much gray had crept into his tawny face. Because
his fur was so light, the effect was subtle but
undeniable. His whole muzzle and a good part of
320 John Grogan
his brow had turned from buff to white. Without
us quite realizing it, our eternal puppy had become
a senior citizen.
That’s not to say he was any better behaved.
Marley was still up to all his old antics, simply at a
more leisurely pace. He still stole food off the
children’s plates. He still flipped open the lid of
the kitchen trash can with his nose and rummaged
inside. He still strained at his leash. Still swallowed
a wide assortment of household objects. Still
drank out of the bathtub and trailed water from
his gullet. And when the skies darkened and thunder
rumbled, he still panicked and, if alone,
turned destructive. One day we arrived home to
find Marley in a lather and Conor’s mattress
splayed open down to the coils.
Over the years, we had become philosophical
about the damage, which had become much less
frequent now that we were away from Florida’s
daily storm patterns. In a dog’s life, some plaster
would fall, some cushions would open, some rugs
would shred. Like any relationship, this one had
its costs. They were costs we came to accept and
balance against the joy and amusement and protection
and companionship he gave us. We could
have bought a small yacht with what we spent on
our dog and all the things he destroyed. Then
again, how many yachts wait by the door all day
Marley & Me 321
for your return? How many live for the moment
they can climb in your lap or ride down the hill
with you on a toboggan, licking your face?
Marley had earned his place in our family. Like a
quirky but beloved uncle, he was what he was. He
would never be Lassie or Benji or Old Yeller; he
would never reach Westminster or even the county
fair. We knew that now. We accepted him for the
dog he was, and loved him all the more for it.
“You old geezer,” I said to him on the side of
the road that late-winter day, scruffing his neck.
Our goal, the cemetery, was still a steep climb
ahead. But just as in life, I was figuring out, the
destination was less important than the journey. I
dropped to one knee, running my hands down his
sides, and said, “Let’s just sit here for a while.”
When he was ready, we turned back down the hill
and poked our way home.

C H A P T E R 2 3
Poultry on Parade
?
That spring we decided to try our hand at animal
husbandry. We owned two acres in the
country now; it only seemed right to share it with
a farm animal or two. Besides, I was editor of Organic
Gardening, a magazine that had long celebrated
the incorporation of animals—and their
manure—into a healthy, well-balanced garden. “A
cow would be fun,” Jenny suggested.
“A cow?” I asked. “Are you crazy? We don’t
even have a barn; how can we have a cow? Where
do you suggest we keep it, in the garage next to
the minivan?”
“How about sheep?” she said. “Sheep are
cute.” I shot her my well-practiced you’re-notbeing-
practical look.
“A goat? Goats are adorable.”
In the end we settled on poultry. For any gar324
John Grogan
dener who has sworn off chemical pesticides and
fertilizers, chickens made a lot of sense. They
were inexpensive and relatively low-maintenance.
They needed only a small coop and a few cups of
cracked corn each morning to be happy. Not only
did they provide fresh eggs, but, when let loose to
roam, they spent their days studiously scouring
the property, eating bugs and grubs, devouring
ticks, scratching up the soil like efficient little rototillers,
and fertilizing with their high-nitrogen
droppings as they went. Each evening at dusk they
returned to their coop on their own. What wasn’t
to like? A chicken was an organic gardener’s best
friend. Chickens made perfect sense. Besides, as
Jenny pointed out, they passed the cuteness test.
Chickens it was. Jenny had become friendly
with a mom from school who lived on a farm and
said she’d be happy to give us some chicks from
the next clutch of eggs to hatch. I told Digger
about our plans, and he agreed a few hens around
the place made sense. Digger had a large coop of
his own in which he kept a flock of chickens for
both eggs and meat.
“Just one word of warning,” he said, folding his
meaty arms across his chest. “Whatever you do,
don’t let the kids name them. Once you name ’em,
they’re no longer poultry, they’re pets.”
Marley & Me 325
“Right,” I said. Chicken farming, I knew, had
no room for sentimentality. Hens could live fifteen
years or more but only produced eggs in their first
couple of years. When they stopped laying, it was
time for the stewing pot. That was just part of
managing a flock.
Digger looked hard at me, as if divining what I
was up against, and added, “Once you name
them, it’s all over.”
“Absolutely,” I agreed. “No names.”
The next evening I pulled into the driveway
from work, and the three kids raced out of the
house to greet me, each cradling a newborn chick.
Jenny was behind them with a fourth in her hands.
Her friend, Donna, had brought the baby birds
over that afternoon. They were barely a day old
and peered up at me with cocked heads as if to
ask, “Are you my mama?”
Patrick was the first to break the news. “I
named mine Feathers!” he proclaimed.
“Mine is Tweety,” said Conor.
“My wicka Wuffy,” Colleen chimed in.
I shot Jenny a quizzical look.
“Fluffy,” Jenny said. “She named her chicken
Fluffy.”
“Jenny,” I protested. “What did Digger tell us?
These are farm animals, not pets.”
326 John Grogan
“Oh, get real, Farmer John,” she said. “You
know as well as I do that you could never hurt one
of these. Just look at how cute they are.”
“Jenny,” I said, the frustration rising in my
voice.
“By the way,” she said, holding up the fourth
chick in her hands, “meet Shirley.”
Feathers, Tweety, Fluffy, and Shirley took up
residence in a box on the kitchen counter, a lightbulb
dangling above them for warmth. They ate
and they pooped and they ate some more—and
grew at a breathtaking pace. Several weeks after
we brought the birds home, something jolted me
awake before dawn. I sat up in bed and listened.
From downstairs came a weak, sickly call. It was
croaky and hoarse, more like a tubercular cough
than a proclamation of dominance. It sounded
again: Cock-a-doodle-do! A few seconds ticked
past and then came an equally sickly, but distinct,
reply: Rook-ru-rook-ru-roo!
I shook Jenny and, when she opened her eyes,
asked: “When Donna brought the chicks over, you
did ask her to check to make sure they were hens,
right?”
“You mean you can do that?” she asked, and
rolled back over, sound asleep.
It’s called sexing. Farmers who know what they
are doing can inspect a newborn chicken and deMarley
& Me 327
termine, with about 80 percent accuracy, whether
it is male or female. At the farm store, sexed
chicks command a premium price. The cheaper
option is to buy “straight run” birds of unknown
gender. You take your chances with straight run,
the idea being that the males will be slaughtered
young for meat and the hens will be kept to lay
eggs. Playing the straight-run gamble, of course,
assumes you have what it takes to kill, gut, and
pluck any excess males you might end up with. As
anyone who has ever raised chickens knows, two
roosters in a flock is one rooster too many.
As it turned out, Donna had not attempted to
sex our four chicks, and three of our four “laying
hens” were males. We had on our kitchen counter
the poultry equivalent of Boys Town U.S.A. The
thing about roosters is they’re never content to
play second chair to any other rooster. If you had
equal numbers of roosters and hens, you might
think they would pair off into happy little Ozzie
and Harriet–style couples. But you would be
wrong. The males will fight endlessly, bloodying
one another gruesomely, to determine who will
dominate the roost. Winner takes all.
As they grew into adolescents, our three roosters
took to posturing and pecking and, most distressing
considering they were still in our kitchen
as I raced to finish their coop in the backyard,
328 John Grogan
crowing their testosterone-pumped hearts out.
Shirley, our one poor, overtaxed female, was getting
way more attention than even the most lusty
of women could want.
I had thought the constant crowing of our
roosters would drive Marley insane. In his
younger years, the sweet chirp of a single tiny
songbird in the yard would set him off on a frenetic
barking jag as he raced from one window to
the next, hopping up and down on his hind legs.
Three crowing roosters a few steps from his food
bowl, however, had no effect on him at all. He
didn’t seem to even know they were there. Each
day the crowing grew louder and stronger, rising
up from the kitchen to echo through the house at
five in the morning. Cock-a-doodle-dooooo!
Marley slept right through the racket. That’s
when it first occurred to me that maybe he wasn’t
just ignoring the crowing; maybe he couldn’t hear
it. I walked up behind him one afternoon as he
snoozed in the kitchen and said, “Marley?” Nothing.
I said it louder: “Marley!” Nothing. I clapped
my hands and shouted, “MARLEY!” He lifted his
head and looked blankly around, his ears up, trying
to figure out what it was his radar had detected.
I did it again, clapping loudly and shouting
his name. This time he turned his head enough to
catch a glimpse of me standing behind him. Oh,
Marley & Me 329
it’s you! He bounced up, tail wagging, happy—
and clearly surprised—to see me. He bumped up
against my legs in greeting and gave me a sheepish
look as if to ask, What’s the idea sneaking up on
me like that? My dog, it seemed, was going deaf.
It all made sense. In recent months Marley
seemed to simply ignore me in a way he never had
before. I would call for him and he would not so
much as glance my way. I would take him outside
before turning in for the night, and he would sniff
his way across the yard, oblivious to my whistles
and calls to get him to turn back. He would be
asleep at my feet in the family room when someone
would ring the doorbell—and he would not so
much as open an eye.
Marley’s ears had caused him problems from an
early age. Like many Labrador retrievers, he was
predisposed to ear infections, and we had spent a
small fortune on antibiotics, ointments, cleansers,
drops, and veterinarian visits. He even underwent
surgery to shorten his ear canals in an attempt to
correct the problem. It had not occurred to me
until after we brought the impossible-to-ignore
roosters into our house that all those years of
problems had taken their toll and our dog had
gradually slipped into a muffled world of faraway
whispers.
Not that he seemed to mind. Retirement suited
330 John Grogan
Marley just fine, and his hearing problems didn’t
seem to impinge on his leisurely country lifestyle.
If anything, deafness proved fortuitous for him, finally
giving him a doctor-certified excuse for disobeying.
After all, how could he heed a command
that he could not hear? As thick-skulled as I always
insisted he was, I swear he figured out how to
use his deafness to his advantage. Drop a piece of
steak into his bowl, and he would come trotting in
from the next room. He still had the ability to detect
the dull, satisfying thud of meat on metal.
But yell for him to come when he had somewhere
else he’d rather be going, and he’d stroll blithely
away from you, not even glancing guiltily over his
shoulder as he once would have.
“I think the dog’s scamming us,” I told Jenny.
She agreed his hearing problems seemed selective,
but every time we tested him, sneaking up, clapping
our hands, shouting his name, he would not
respond. And every time we dropped food into his
bowl, he would come running. He appeared to be
deaf to all sounds except the one that was dearest
to his heart or, more accurately, his stomach: the
sound of dinner.
Marley went through life insatiably hungry. Not
only did we give him four big scoops of dog chow
a day—enough food to sustain an entire family of
Chihuahuas for a week—but we began freely supMarley
& Me 331
plementing his diet with table scraps, against the
better advice of every dog guide we had ever read.
Table scraps, we knew, simply programmed dogs
to prefer human food to dog chow (and given the
choice between a half-eaten hamburger and dry
kibble, who could blame them?). Table scraps
were a recipe for canine obesity. Labs, in particular,
were prone to chubbiness, especially as they
moved into middle age and beyond. Some Labs,
especially those of the English variety, were so rotund
by adulthood, they looked like they’d been
inflated with an air hose and were ready to float
down Fifth Avenue in the Macy’s Thanksgiving
Day Parade.
Not our dog. Marley had many problems, but
obesity was not among them. No matter how
many calories he devoured, he always burned
more. All that unbridled high-strung exuberance
consumed vast amounts of energy. He was like a
high-kilowatt electric plant that instantly converted
every ounce of available fuel into pure, raw
power. Marley was an amazing physical specimen,
the kind of dog passersby stopped to admire. He
was huge for a Labrador retriever, considerably
bigger than the average male of his breed, which
runs sixty-five to eighty pounds. Even as he aged,
the bulk of his mass was pure muscle—ninetyseven
pounds of rippled, sinewy brawn with nary
332 John Grogan
an ounce of fat anywhere on him. His rib cage was
the size of a small beer keg, but the ribs themselves
stretched just beneath his fur with no spare
padding. We were not worried about obesity; exactly
the opposite. On our many visits to Dr. Jay
before leaving Florida, Jenny and I would voice
the same concerns: We were feeding him tremendous
amounts of food, but still he was so much
thinner than most Labs, and he always appeared
famished, even immediately after wolfing down a
bucket of kibble that looked like it was meant for a
draft horse. Were we slowly starving him? Dr. Jay
always responded the same way. He would run his
hands down Marley’s sleek sides, setting him off
on a desperately happy Labrador evader journey
around the cramped exam room, and tell us that,
as far as physical attributes went, Marley was just
about perfect. “Just keep doing what you’re doing,”
Dr. Jay would say. Then, as Marley lunged
between his legs or snarfed a cotton ball off the
counter, Dr. Jay would add: “Obviously, I don’t
need to tell you that Marley burns a lot of nervous
energy.”
Each evening after we finished dinner, when it
came time to give Marley his meal, I would fill his
bowl with chow and then freely toss in any tasty
leftovers or scraps I could find. With three young
children at the table, half-eaten food was someMarley
& Me 333
thing we had in plentiful supply. Bread crusts,
steak trimmings, pan drippings, chicken skins,
gravy, rice, carrots, pureed prunes, sandwiches,
three-day-old pasta—into the bowl it went. Our
pet may have behaved like the court jester, but he
ate like the Prince of Wales. The only foods we
kept from him were those we knew to be unhealthy
for dogs, such as dairy products, sweets,
potatoes, and chocolate. I have a problem with
people who buy human food for their pets, but
larding Marley’s meals with scraps that would
otherwise be thrown out made me feel thrifty—
waste not, want not—and charitable. I was giving
always-appreciative Marley a break from the endless
monotony of dog-chow hell.
When Marley wasn’t acting as our household
garbage disposal, he was on duty as the family’s
emergency spill-response team. No mess was too
big a job for our dog. One of the kids would flip a
full bowl of spaghetti and meatballs on the floor,
and we’d simply whistle and stand back while Old
Wet Vac sucked up every last noodle and then
licked the floor until it gleamed. Errant peas,
dropped celery, runaway rigatoni, spilled applesauce,
it didn’t matter what it was. If it hit the
floor, it was history. To the amazement of our
friends, he even wolfed down salad greens.
Not that food had to make it to the ground be334
John Grogan
fore it ended up in Marley’s stomach. He was a
skilled and unremorseful thief, preying mostly on
unsuspecting children and always after checking
to make sure neither Jenny nor I was watching.
Birthday parties were bonanzas for him. He would
make his way through the crowd of five-year-olds,
shamelessly snatching hot dogs right out of their
little hands. During one party, we estimated he
ended up getting two-thirds of the birthday cake,
nabbing piece after piece off the paper plates the
children held on their laps.
It didn’t matter how much food he devoured, either
through legitimate means or illicit activities.
He always wanted more. When deafness came, we
weren’t completely surprised that the only sound
he could still hear was the sweet, soft thud of
falling food.
One day I arrived home from work to find the
house empty. Jenny and the kids were out somewhere,
and I called for Marley but got no response.
I walked upstairs, where he sometimes
snoozed when left alone, but he was nowhere in
sight. After I changed my clothes, I returned
downstairs and found him in the kitchen up to no
good. His back to me, he was standing on his hind
legs, his front paws and chest resting on the
kitchen table as he gobbled down the remains of a
grilled cheese sandwich. My first reaction was to
Marley & Me 335
loudly scold him. Instead I decided to see how
close I could get before he realized he had company.
I tiptoed up behind him until I was close
enough to touch him. As he chewed the crusts, he
kept glancing at the door that led into the garage,
knowing that was where Jenny and the kids would
enter upon their return. The instant the door
opened, he would be on the floor under the table,
feigning sleep. Apparently it had not occurred to
him that Dad would be arriving home, too, and
just might sneak in through the front door.
“Oh, Marley?” I asked in a normal voice.
“What do you think you’re doing?” He just kept
gulping the sandwich down, clueless to my presence.
His tail was wagging languidly, a sign he
thought he was alone and getting away with a major
food heist. Clearly he was pleased with himself.
I cleared my throat loudly, and he still didn’t
hear me. I made kissy noises with my mouth.
Nothing. He polished off one sandwich, nosed the
plate out of the way, and stretched forward to
reach the crusts left on a second plate. “You are
such a bad dog,” I said as he chewed away. I
snapped my fingers twice and he froze midbite,
staring at the back door. What was that? Did I
hear a car door slam? After a moment, he convinced
himself that whatever he heard was nothing
and went back to his purloined snack.
336 John Grogan
That’s when I reached out and tapped him once
on the butt. I might as well have lit a stick of dynamite.
The old dog nearly jumped out of his fur
coat. He rocketed backward off the table and, as
soon as he saw me, dropped onto the floor, rolling
over to expose his belly to me in surrender.
“Busted!” I told him. “You are so busted.” But I
didn’t have it in me to scold him. He was old; he
was deaf; he was beyond reform. I wasn’t going to
change him. Sneaking up on him had been great
fun, and I laughed out loud when he jumped. Now
as he lay at my feet begging for forgiveness I just
found it a little sad. I guess secretly I had hoped
he’d been faking all along.
I finished the chicken coop, an A-frame plywood
affair with a drawbridge-style gangplank that
could be raised at night to keep out predators.
Donna kindly took back two of our three roosters
and exchanged them for hens from her flock. We
now had three girls and one testosterone-pumped
guy bird that spent every waking minute doing
one of three things: pursuing sex, having sex, or
crowing boastfully about the sex he had just
scored. Jenny observed that roosters are what men
would be if left to their own devices, with no social
conventions to rein in their baser instincts,
Marley & Me 337
and I couldn’t disagree. I had to admit, I kind of
admired the lucky bastard.
We let the chickens out each morning to roam
the yard, and Marley made a few gallant runs at
them, charging ahead barking for a dozen paces or
so before losing steam and giving up. It was as
though some genetic coding deep inside him was
sending an urgent message: “You’re a retriever;
they are birds. Don’t you think it might be a good
idea to chase them?” He just did not have his heart
in it. Soon the birds learned the lumbering yellow
beast was no threat whatsoever, more a minor annoyance
than anything else, and Marley learned to
share the yard with these new, feathered interlopers.
One day I looked up from weeding in the garden
to see Marley and the four chickens making
their way down the row toward me as if in formation,
the birds pecking and Marley sniffing as they
went. It was like old friends out for a Sunday
stroll. “What kind of self-respecting hunting dog
are you?” I chastised him. Marley lifted his leg and
peed on a tomato plant before hurrying to rejoin
his new pals.

C H A P T E R 2 4
The Potty Room
?
Aperson can learn a few things from an old
dog. As the months slipped by and his infirmities
mounted, Marley taught us mostly about
life’s uncompromising finiteness. Jenny and I were
not quite middle-aged. Our children were young,
our health good, and our retirement years still an
unfathomable distance off on the horizon. It
would have been easy to deny the inevitable creep
of age, to pretend it might somehow pass us by.
Marley would not afford us the luxury of such denial.
As we watched him grow gray and deaf and
creaky, there was no ignoring his mortality—or
ours. Age sneaks up on us all, but it sneaks up on a
dog with a swiftness that is both breathtaking and
sobering. In the brief span of twelve years, Marley
had gone from bubbly puppy to awkward adolescent
to muscular adult to doddering senior
340 John Grogan
citizen. He aged roughly seven years for every one
of ours, putting him, in human years, on the
downward slope to ninety.
His once sparkling white teeth had gradually
worn down to brown nubs. Three of his four front
fangs were missing, broken off one by one during
crazed panic attacks as he tried to chew his way to
safety. His breath, always a bit on the fishy side,
had taken on the bouquet of a sun-baked Dumpster.
The fact that he had acquired a taste for that
little appreciated delicacy known as chicken manure
didn’t help, either. To our complete revulsion,
he gobbled the stuff up like it was caviar.
His digestion was not what it once had been,
and he became as gassy as a methane plant. There
were days I swore that if I lit a match, the whole
house would go up. Marley was able to clear an
entire room with his silent, deadly flatulence,
which seemed to increase in direct correlation to
the number of dinner guests we had in our home.
“Marley! Not again!” the children would scream
in unison, and lead the retreat. Sometimes he
drove even himself away. He would be sleeping
peacefully when the smell would reach his nostrils;
his eyes would pop open and he’d furl his
brow as if asking, “Good God! Who dealt it?”
And he would stand up and nonchalantly move
into the next room.
Marley & Me 341
When he wasn’t farting, he was outside pooping.
Or at least thinking about it. His choosiness
about where he squatted to defecate had grown to
the point of compulsive obsession. Each time I let
him out, he took longer and longer to decide on
the perfect spot. Back and forth he would promenade;
round and round he went, sniffing, pausing,
scratching, circling, moving on, the whole while
sporting a ridiculous grin on his face. As he
combed the grounds in search of squatting nirvana,
I stood outside, sometimes in the rain,
sometimes in the snow, sometimes in the dark of
night, often barefoot, occasionally just in my
boxer shorts, knowing from experience that I
didn’t dare leave him unsupervised lest he decide
to meander up the hill to visit the dogs on the next
street.
Sneaking away became a sport for him. If the
opportunity presented itself and he thought he
could get away with it, he would bolt for the property
line. Well, not exactly bolt. He would more
sniff and shuffle his way from one bush to the next
until he was out of sight. Late one night I let him
out the front door for his final walk before bed.
Freezing rain was forming an icy slush on the
ground, and I turned around to grab a slicker out
of the front closet. When I walked out onto the
sidewalk less than a minute later, he was nowhere
342 John Grogan
to be found. I walked out into the yard, whistling
and clapping, knowing he couldn’t hear me,
though pretty sure all the neighbors could. For
twenty minutes I prowled through our neighbors’
yards in the rain, making quite the fashion statement
dressed in boots, raincoat, and boxer shorts.
I prayed no porch lights would come on. The more
I hunted, the angrier I got. Where the hell did he
mosey off to this time? But as the minutes
passed, my anger turned to worry. I thought of
those old men you read about in the newspaper
who wander away from nursing homes and are
found frozen in the snow three days later. I returned
home, walked upstairs, and woke up Jenny.
“Marley’s disappeared,” I said. “I can’t find him
anywhere. He’s out there in the freezing rain.” She
was on her feet instantly, pulling on jeans, slipping
into a sweater and boots. Together we broadened
the search. I could hear her way up the side of the
hill, whistling and clucking for him as I crashed
through the woods in the dark, half expecting to
find him lying unconscious in a creek bed.
Eventually our paths met up. “Anything?” I
asked.
“Nothing,” Jenny said.
We were soaked from the rain, and my bare legs
were stinging from the cold. “Come on,” I said.
“Let’s go home and get warm and I’ll come back
Marley & Me 343
out with the car.” We walked down the hill and up
the driveway. That’s when we saw him, standing
beneath the overhang out of the rain and overjoyed
to have us back. I could have killed him. Instead,
I brought him inside and toweled him off,
the unmistakable smell of wet dog filling the
kitchen. Exhausted from his late-night jaunt,
Marley conked out and did not budge till nearly
noon the next day.
Marley’s eyesight had grown fuzzy, and bunnies
could now scamper past a dozen feet in front of
him without him noticing. He was shedding his
fur in vast quantities, forcing Jenny to vacuum
every day—and still she couldn’t keep up with it.
Dog hair insinuated itself into every crevice of
our home, every piece of our wardrobe, and more
than a few of our meals. He had always been a
shedder, but what had once been light flurries had
grown into full-fledged blizzards. He would shake
and a cloud of loose fur would rise around him,
drifting down onto every surface. One night as I
watched television, I dangled my leg off the couch
and absently stroked his hip with my bare foot. At
the commercial break, I looked down to see a
sphere of fur the size of a grapefruit near where I
had been rubbing. His hairballs rolled across the
344 John Grogan
wood floors like tumbleweeds on a windblown
plain.
Most worrisome of all were his hips, which had
mostly forsaken him. Arthritis had snuck into his
joints, weakening them and making them ache.
The same dog that once could ride me broncostyle
on his back, the dog that could lift the entire
dining room table on his shoulders and bounce it
around the room, could now barely pull himself
up. He groaned in pain when he lay down, and
groaned again when he struggled to his feet. I did
not realize just how weak his hips had become until
one day when I gave his rump a light pat and his
hindquarters collapsed beneath him as though he
had just received a cross-body block. Down he
went. It was painful to watch.
Climbing the stairs to the second floor was becoming
increasingly difficult for him, but he
wouldn’t think of sleeping alone on the main floor,
even after we put a dog bed at the foot of the stairs
for him. Marley loved people, loved being underfoot,
loved resting his chin on the mattress and
panting in our faces as we slept, loved jamming his
head through the shower curtain for a drink as we
bathed, and he wasn’t about to stop now. Each
night when Jenny and I retired to our bedroom, he
would fret at the foot of the stairs, whining, yipping,
pacing, tentatively testing the first step with
Marley & Me 345
his front paw as he mustered his courage for the
ascent that not long before had been effortless.
From the top of the stairs, I would beckon,
“Come on, boy. You can do it.” After several minutes
of this, he would disappear around the corner
in order to get a running start and then come
charging up, his front shoulders bearing most of
his weight. Sometimes he made it; sometimes he
stalled midflight and had to return to the bottom
and try again. On his most pitiful attempts he
would lose his footing entirely and slide ingloriously
backward down the steps on his belly. He
was too big for me to carry, but increasingly I
found myself following him up the stairs, lifting
his rear end up each step as he hopped forward on
his front paws.
Because of the difficulty stairs now posed for
him, I assumed Marley would try to limit the
number of trips he made up and down. That
would be giving him far too much credit for common
sense. No matter how much trouble he had
getting up the stairs, if I returned downstairs, say
to grab a book or turn off the lights, he would be
right on my heels, clomping heavily down behind
me. Then, seconds later, he would have to repeat
the torturous climb. Jenny and I both took to
sneaking around behind his back once he was upstairs
for the night so he would not be tempted to
346 John Grogan
follow us back down. We assumed sneaking downstairs
without his knowledge would be easy now
that his hearing was shot and he was sleeping
longer and more heavily than ever. But he always
seemed to know when we had stolen away. I would
be reading in bed and he would be asleep on the
floor beside me, snoring heavily. Stealthily, I
would pull back the covers, slide out of bed, and
tiptoe past him out of the room, turning back to
make sure I hadn’t disturbed him. I would be
downstairs for only a few minutes when I would
hear his heavy steps on the stairs, coming in search
of me. He might be deaf and half blind, but his
radar apparently was still in good working order.
This went on not only at night but all day long,
too. I would be reading the newspaper at the
kitchen table with Marley curled up at my feet
when I would get up for a refill from the coffeepot
across the room. Even though I was within sight
and would be coming right back, he would lumber
with difficulty to his feet and trudge over to be
with me. No sooner had he gotten comfortable at
my feet by the coffeepot than I would return to the
table, where he would again drag himself and settle
in. A few minutes later I would walk into the
family room to turn on the stereo, and up again he
would struggle, following me in, circling around
and collapsing with a moan beside me just as I was
Marley & Me 347
ready to walk away. So it would go, not only with
me but with Jenny and the kids, too.
As age took its toll, Marley had good days and bad
days. He had good minutes and bad minutes, too,
sandwiched so close together sometimes it was
hard to believe it was the same dog.
One evening in the spring of 2002, I took Marley
out for a short walk around the yard. The night
was cool, in the high forties, and windy. Invigorated
by the crisp air, I started to run, and Marley,
feeling frisky himself, galloped along beside me
just like in the old days. I even said out loud to
him, “See, Marl, you still have some of the puppy
in you.” We trotted together back to the front
door, his tongue out as he panted happily, his eyes
alert. At the porch stoop, Marley gamely tried to
leap up the two steps—but his rear hips collapsed
on him as he pushed off, and he found himself
awkwardly stuck, his front paws on the stoop, his
belly resting on the steps and his butt collapsed
flat on the sidewalk. There he sat, looking up at
me like he didn’t know what had caused such an
embarrassing display. I whistled and slapped my
hands on my thighs, and he flailed his front legs
valiantly, trying to get up, but it was no use. He
could not lift his rear off the ground. “Come on,
348 John Grogan
Marley!” I called, but he was immobilized. Finally,
I grabbed him under the front shoulders and
turned him sideways so he could get all four legs
on the ground. Then, after a few failed tries, he
was able to stand. He backed up, looked apprehensively
at the stairs for a few seconds, and loped
up and into the house. From that day on, his confidence
as a champion stair climber was shot; he
never attempted those two small steps again without
first stopping and fretting.
No doubt about it, getting old was a bitch. And
an undignified one at that.
Marley reminded me of life’s brevity, of its fleeting
joys and missed opportunities. He reminded
me that each of us gets just one shot at the gold,
with no replays. One day you’re swimming
halfway out into the ocean convinced this is the
day you will catch that seagull; the next you’re
barely able to bend down to drink out of your water
bowl. Like Patrick Henry and everyone else, I
had but one life to live. I kept coming back to the
same question: What in God’s name was I doing
spending it at a gardening magazine? It wasn’t that
my new job did not have its rewards. I was proud
of what I had done with the magazine. But I
missed newspapers desperately. I missed the peoMarley
& Me 349
ple who read them and the people who write
them. I missed being part of the big story of the
day, and the feeling that I was in my own small
way helping to make a difference. I missed the
adrenaline surge of writing on deadline and the
satisfaction of waking up the next morning to find
my in-box filled with e-mails responding to my
words. Mostly, I missed telling stories. I wondered
why I had ever walked away from a gig that so perfectly
fit my disposition to wade into the treacherous
waters of magazine management with its
bare-bones budgets, relentless advertising pressures,
staffing headaches, and thankless behindthe-
scenes editing chores.
When a former colleague of mine mentioned in
passing that the Philadelphia Inquirer was seeking
a metropolitan columnist, I leapt without a
second’s hesitation. Columnist positions are extremely
hard to come by, even at smaller papers,
and when a position does open up it’s almost always
filled internally, a plum handed to veteran
staffers who’ve proved themselves as reporters.
The Inquirer was well respected, winner of seventeen
Pulitzer Prizes over the years and one of
the country’s great newspapers. I was a fan, and
now the Inquirer’s editors were asking to meet
me. I wouldn’t even have to relocate my family to
take the job. The office I would be working in was
350 John Grogan
just forty-five minutes down the Pennsylvania
Turnpike, a tolerable commute. I don’t put much
stock in miracles, but it all seemed too good to be
true, like an act of divine intervention.
In November 2002, I traded in my gardening
togs for a Philadelphia Inquirer press badge. It
quite possibly was the happiest day of my life. I
was back where I belonged, in a newsroom as a
columnist once again.
I had only been in the new job for a few months
when the first big snowstorm of 2003 hit. The
flakes began to fall on a Sunday night, and by the
time they stopped the next day, a blanket two feet
deep covered the ground. The children were off
school for three days as our community slowly dug
out, and I filed my columns from home. With a
snowblower I borrowed from my neighbor, I
cleared the driveway and opened a narrow canyon
to the front door. Knowing Marley could never
climb the sheer walls to get out into the yard, let
alone negotiate the deep drifts once he was off the
path, I cleared him his own “potty room,” as the
kids dubbed it—a small plowed space off the front
walkway where he could do his business. When I
called him outside to try out the new facilities,
though, he just stood in the clearing and sniffed
Marley & Me 351
the snow suspiciously. He had very particular notions
about what constituted a suitable place to answer
nature’s call, and this clearly was not what he
had in mind. He was willing to lift his leg and pee,
but that’s where he drew the line. Poop right
here? Smack in front of the picture window?
You can’t be serious. He turned and, with a
mighty heave to climb up the slippery porch steps,
went back inside.
That night after dinner I brought him out again,
and this time Marley no longer could afford the
luxury of waiting. He had to go. He nervously
paced up and down the cleared walkway, into the
potty room and out onto the driveway, sniffing the
snow, pawing at the frozen ground. No, this just
won’t do. Before I could stop him, he somehow
clambered up and over the sheer snow wall the
snowblower had cut and began making his way
across the yard toward a stand of white pines fifty
feet away. I couldn’t believe it; my arthritic, geriatric
dog was off on an alpine trek. Every couple
of steps his back hips collapsed on him and he
sank down into the snow, where he rested on his
belly for a few seconds before struggling back to
his feet and pushing on. Slowly, painfully, he made
his way through the deep snow, using his stillstrong
front shoulders to pull his body forward. I
stood in the driveway, wondering how I was going
352 John Grogan
to rescue him when he finally got stuck and could
go no farther. But he trudged on and finally made
it to the closest pine tree. Suddenly I saw what he
was up to. The dog had a plan. Beneath the dense
branches of the pine, the snow was just a few
inches deep. The tree acted like an umbrella, and
once underneath it Marley was free to move about
and squat comfortably to relieve himself. I had to
admit, it was pretty brilliant. He circled and
sniffed and scratched in his customary way, trying
to locate a worthy shrine for his daily offering.
Then, to my amazement, he abandoned the cozy
shelter and lunged back into the deep snow en
route to the next pine tree. The first spot looked
perfect to me, but clearly it was just not up to his
sterling standards.
With difficulty he reached the second tree, but
again, after considerable circling, found the area
beneath its branches unsuitable. So he set off to
the third tree, and then the fourth and the fifth,
each time getting farther from the driveway. I
tried calling him back, though I knew he couldn’t
hear me. “Marley, you’re going to get stuck, you
dumbo!” I yelled. He just plowed ahead with
single-minded determination. The dog was on a
quest. Finally, he reached the last tree on our
property, a big spruce with a dense canopy of
branches out near where the kids waited for the
Marley & Me 353
school bus. It was here he found the frozen piece
of ground he had been looking for, private and
barely dusted with snow. He circled a few times
and creakily squatted down on his old, shot,
arthritis-riddled haunches. There he finally found
relief. Eureka!
With mission accomplished, he set off on the
long journey home. As he struggled through the
snow, I waved my arms and clapped my hands to
encourage him. “Keep coming, boy! You can make
it!” But I could see him tiring, and he still had a
long way to go. “Don’t stop now!” I yelled. A
dozen yards from the driveway, that’s just what he
did. He was done. He stopped and lay down in the
snow, exhausted. Marley did not exactly look distressed,
but he didn’t look at ease, either. He shot
me a worried look. Now what do we do, boss? I
had no idea. I could wade through the snow to
him, but then what? He was too heavy for me to
pick up and carry. For several minutes I stood
there, calling and cajoling, but Marley wouldn’t
budge.
“Hang on,” I said. “Let me get my boots on and
I’ll come get you.” It had dawned on me that I
could wrestle him up onto the toboggan and pull
him back to the house. As soon as he saw me approaching
with the toboggan, my plan became
moot. He jumped up, reenergized. The only thing
354 John Grogan
I could think was that he remembered our infamous
ride into the woods and over the creek bank
and was hoping for a repeat. He lurched forward
toward me like a dinosaur in a tar pit. I waded out
into the snow, stomping down a path for him as I
went, and he inched ahead. Finally we scrambled
over the snowbank and onto the driveway together.
He shook the snow off and banged his tail
against my knees, prancing about, all frisky and
cocky, flush with the bravado of an adventurer just
back from a jaunt through uncharted wilderness.
To think, I had doubted he could do it.
The next morning I shoveled a narrow path out
to the far spruce tree on the corner of the property
for him, and Marley adopted the space as his
own personal powder room for the duration of the
winter. The crisis had been averted, but bigger
questions loomed. How much longer could he
continue like this? And at what point would the
aches and indignities of old age outstrip the simple
contentment he found in each sleepy, lazy day?
C H A P T E R 2 5
Beating the Odds
?
When school let out for the summer, Jenny
packed the kids into the minivan and
headed to Boston for a week to visit her sister. I
stayed behind to work. That left Marley with no
one at home to keep him company and let him out.
Of the many little embarrassments old age inflicted
on him, the one that seemed to bother him
most was the diminished control he had over his
bowels. For all Marley’s bad behavior over the
years, his bathroom habits had always been surefire.
It was the one Marley feature we could brag
about. From just a few months of age, he never,
ever, had accidents in the house, even when left
alone for ten or twelve hours. We joked that his
bladder was made of steel and his bowels of stone.
That had changed in recent months. He no
longer could go more than a few hours between pit
356 John Grogan
stops. When the urge called, he had to go, and if we
were not home to let him out, he had no choice but
to go inside. It killed him to do it, and we always
knew the second we walked into the house when he
had had an accident. Instead of greeting us at the
door in his exuberant manner, he would be standing
far back in the room, his head hanging nearly to
the floor, his tail flat between his legs, the shame radiating
off him. We never punished him for it. How
could we? He was nearly thirteen, about as old as
Labs got. We knew he couldn’t help it, and he
seemed to know it, too. I was sure if he could talk,
he would profess his humiliation and assure us that
he had tried, really tried, to hold it in.
Jenny bought a steam cleaner for the carpet, and
we began arranging our schedules to make sure we
were not away from the house for more than a few
hours at a time. Jenny would rush home from
school, where she volunteered, to let Marley out. I
would leave dinner parties between the main
course and dessert to give him a walk, which, of
course, Marley dragged out as long as possible,
sniffing and circling his way around the yard. Our
friends teasingly wondered aloud who was the real
master over at the Grogan house.
With Jenny and the kids away, I knew I would
be putting in long days. This was my chance to
stay out after work, wandering around the region
Marley & Me 357
and exploring the towns and neighborhoods I was
now writing about. With my long commute, I
would be away from home ten to twelve hours a
day. There was no question Marley couldn’t be
alone that long, or even half that long. We decided
to board him at the local kennel we used every
summer when we went on vacation. The kennel
was attached to a large veterinarian practice that
offered professional care if not the most personal
service. Each time we went there, it seemed, we
saw a different doctor who knew nothing about
Marley except what was printed in his chart. We
never even learned their names. Unlike our
beloved Dr. Jay in Florida, who knew Marley almost
as well as we did and who truly had become a
family friend by the time we left, these were
strangers—competent strangers but strangers
nonetheless. Marley didn’t seem to mind.
“Waddy go doggie camp!” Colleen screeched,
and he perked up as though the idea had possibilities.
We joked about the activities the kennel staff
would have for him: hole digging from 9:00 to
10:00; pillow shredding from 10:15 to 11:00;
garbage raiding from 11:05 to noon, and so on. I
dropped him off on a Sunday evening and left my
cell phone number with the front desk. Marley
never seemed to fully relax when he was boarded,
even in the familiar surroundings of Dr. Jay’s of358
John Grogan
fice, and I always worried a little about him. After
each visit, he returned looking gaunter, his snout
often rubbed raw from where he had fretted it
against the grating of his cage, and when he got
home he would collapse in the corner and sleep
heavily for hours, as if he had spent the entire
time away pacing his cage with insomnia.
That Tuesday morning, I was near Independence
Hall in downtown Philadelphia when my
cell phone rang. “Could you please hold for Dr.
So-and-so?” the woman from the kennel asked. It
was yet another veterinarian whose name I had
never heard before. A few seconds later the vet
came on the phone. “We have an emergency with
Marley,” she said.
My heart rose in my chest. “An emergency?”
The vet said Marley’s stomach had bloated with
food, water, and air and then, stretched and distended,
had flipped over on itself, twisting and
trapping its contents. With nowhere for the gas and
other contents to escape, his stomach had swelled
painfully in a life-threatening condition known as
gastric dilatation-volvulus. It almost always required
surgery to correct, she said, and if left untreated
could result in death within a few hours.
She said she had inserted a tube down his throat
and released much of the gas that had built up in
his stomach, which relieved the swelling. By maMarley
& Me 359
nipulating the tube in his stomach, she had
worked the twist out of it, or as she put it, “unflipped
it,” and he was now sedated and resting
comfortably.
“That’s a good thing, right?” I asked cautiously.
“But only temporary,” the doctor said. “We got
him through the immediate crisis, but once their
stomachs twist like that, they almost always will
twist again.”
“Like how almost always?” I asked.
“I would say he has a one percent chance that it
won’t flip again,” she said. One percent? For
God’s sake, I thought, he has better odds of getting
into Harvard.
“One percent? That’s it?”
“I’m sorry,” she said. “It’s very grave.”
If his stomach did flip again—and she was
telling me it was a virtual certainty—we had two
choices. The first was to operate on him. She said
she would open him up and attach the stomach to
the cavity wall with sutures to prevent it from flipping
again. “The operation will cost about two
thousand dollars,” she said. I gulped. “And I have
to tell you, it’s very invasive. It will be tough going
for a dog his age.” The recovery would be long and
difficult, assuming he made it through the operation
at all. Sometimes older dogs like him did not
survive the trauma of the surgery, she explained.
360 John Grogan
“If he was four or five years old, I would be saying
by all means let’s operate,” the vet said. “But
at his age, you have to ask yourself if you really
want to put him through that.”
“Not if we can help it,” I said. “What’s the second
option?”
“The second option,” she said, hesitating only
slightly, “would be putting him to sleep.”
“Oh,” I said.
I was having trouble processing it all. Five minutes
ago I was walking to the Liberty Bell, assuming
Marley was happily relaxing in his kennel run.
Now I was being asked to decide whether he
should live or die. I had never even heard of the
condition she described. Only later would I learn
that bloat was fairly common in some breeds of
dogs, especially those, such as Marley, with deep
barrel chests. Dogs who scarfed down their entire
meal in a few quick gulps—Marley, once again—
also seemed to be at higher risk. Some dog owners
suspected the stress of being in a kennel could
trigger bloat, but I later would see a professor of
veterinarian medicine quoted as saying his research
showed no connection between kennel stress and
bloat. The vet on the phone acknowledged Marley’s
excitement around the other dogs in the kennel
could have brought on the attack. He had
gulped down his food as usual and was panting and
Marley & Me 361
salivating heavily, worked up by all the other dogs
around him. She thought he might have swallowed
so much air and saliva that his stomach began to dilate
on its long axis, making it vulnerable to twisting.
“Can’t we just wait and see how he does?” I
asked. “Maybe it won’t twist again.”
“That’s what we’re doing right now,” she said,
“waiting and watching.” She repeated the one
percent odds and added, “If his stomach flips
again, I’ll need you to make a quick decision. We
can’t let him suffer.”
“I need to speak with my wife,” I told her. “I’ll
call you back.”
When Jenny answered her cell phone she was on
a crowded tour boat with the kids in the middle of
Boston Harbor. I could hear the boat’s engine
chugging and the guide’s voice booming through a
loudspeaker in the background. We had a choppy,
awkward conversation over a bad connection.
Neither of us could hear the other well. I shouted
to try to communicate what we were up against.
She was only getting snippets. Marley . . . emergency
. . . stomach . . . surgery . . . put to sleep.
There was silence on the other end. “Hello?” I
said. “Are you still there?”
“I’m here,” Jenny said, then went quiet again.
We both knew this day would come eventually; we
just did not think it would be today. Not with her
362 John Grogan
and the kids out of town where they couldn’t even
have their good-byes; not with me ninety minutes
away in downtown Philadelphia with work commitments.
By the end of the conversation,
through shouts and blurts and pregnant pauses,
we decided there was really no decision at all. The
vet was right. Marley was fading on all fronts. It
would be cruel to put him through a traumatic
surgery to simply try to stave off the inevitable.
We could not ignore the high cost, either. It
seemed obscene, almost immoral, to spend that
kind of money on an old dog at the end of his life
when there were unwanted dogs put down every
day for lack of a home, and more important, children
not getting proper medical attention for lack
of financial resources. If this was Marley’s time,
then it was his time, and we would see to it he
went out with dignity and without suffering. We
knew it was the right thing, yet neither of us was
ready to lose him.
I called the veterinarian back and told her our
decision. “His teeth are rotted away, he’s stonedeaf,
and his hips have gotten so bad he can barely
get up the porch stoop anymore,” I told her as if
she needed convincing. “He’s having trouble
squatting to have a bowel movement.”
The vet, whom I now knew as Dr. Hopkinson,
made it easy on me. “I think it’s time,” she said.
Marley & Me 363
“I guess so,” I answered, but I didn’t want her
to put him down without calling me first. I wanted
to be there with him if possible. “And,” I reminded
her, “I’m still holding out for that one
percent miracle.”
“Let’s talk in an hour,” she said.
An hour later Dr. Hopkinson sounded slightly
more optimistic. Marley was still holding his own,
resting with an intravenous drip in his front leg.
She raised his odds to five percent. “I don’t want
you to get your hopes up,” she said. “He’s a very
sick dog.”
The next morning the doctor sounded brighter
still. “He had a good night,” she said. When I called
back at noon, she had removed the IV from his paw
and started him on a slurry of rice and meat. “He’s
famished,” she reported. By the next call, he was
up on his feet. “Good news,” she said. “One of our
techs just took him outside and he pooped and
peed.” I cheered into the phone as though he had
just taken Best in Show. Then she added: “He must
be feeling better. He just gave me a big sloppy kiss
on the lips.” Yep, that was our Marley.
“I wouldn’t have thought it possible yesterday,”
the doc said, “but I think you’ll be able to take
him home tomorrow.” The following evening after
work, that’s just what I did. He looked
terrible—weak and skeletal, his eyes milky and
364 John Grogan
crusted with mucus, as if he had been to the other
side of death and back, which in a sense I guess he
had. I must have looked a little ill myself after
paying the eight-hundred-dollar bill. When I
thanked the doctor for her good work, she replied,
“The whole staff loves Marley. Everyone was
rooting for him.”
I walked him out to the car, my ninety-nine-toone-
odds miracle dog, and said, “Let’s get you
home where you belong.” He just stood there
looking woefully into the backseat, knowing it was
as unattainable as Mount Olympus. He didn’t even
try to hop in. I called to one of the kennel workers,
who helped me gingerly lift him into the car, and I
drove him home with a box of medicines and strict
instructions. Marley would never again gulp a
huge meal in one sitting, or slurp unlimited
amounts of water. His days of playing submarine
with his snout in the water bowl were over. From
now on, he was to receive four small meals a day
and only limited rations of water—a half cup or so
in his bowl at a time. In this way, the doctor hoped,
his stomach would stay calm and not bloat and
twist again. He also was never again to be boarded
in a large kennel surrounded by barking, pacing
dogs. I was convinced, and Dr. Hopkinson seemed
to be, too, that that had been the precipitating factor
in his close call with death.
Marley & Me 365
? ? ?
That night, after I got him home and inside, I
spread a sleeping bag on the floor in the family
room beside him. He was not up to climbing the
stairs to the bedroom, and I didn’t have the heart
to leave him alone and helpless. I knew he would
fret all night if he was not at my side. “We’re having
a sleepover, Marley!” I proclaimed, and lay
down next to him. I stroked him head to tail until
huge clouds of fur rolled off his back. I wiped the
mucus from the corners of his eyes and scratched
his ears until he moaned with pleasure. Jenny and
the kids would be home in the morning; she would
pamper him with frequent minimeals of boiled
hamburger and rice. It had taken him thirteen
years, but Marley had finally merited people food,
not leftovers but a stovetop meal made just for
him. The children would throw their arms around
him, unaware of how close they had come to never
seeing him again.
Tomorrow the house would be loud and boisterous
and full of life again. For tonight, it was just
the two of us, Marley and me. Lying there with
him, his smelly breath in my face, I couldn’t help
thinking of our first night together all those years
ago after I brought him home from the breeder, a
tiny puppy whimpering for his mother. I remem366
John Grogan
bered how I dragged his box into the bedroom and
the way we had fallen asleep together, my arm
dangling over the side of the bed to comfort him.
Thirteen years later, here we were, still inseparable.
I thought about his puppyhood and adolescence,
about the shredded couches and eaten
mattresses, about the wild walks along the Intracoastal
and the cheek-to-jowl dances with the
stereo blaring. I thought about the swallowed objects
and purloined paychecks and sweet moments
of canine-human empathy. Mostly I thought
about what a good and loyal companion he had
been all these years. What a trip it had been.
“You really scared me, old man,” I whispered as
he stretched out beside me and slid his snout beneath
my arm to encourage me to keep petting
him. “It’s good to have you home.”
We fell asleep together, side by side on the
floor, his rump half on my sleeping bag, my arm
draped across his back. He woke me once in the
night, his shoulders flinching, his paws twitching,
little baby barks coming from deep in his throat,
more like coughs than anything else. He was
dreaming. Dreaming, I imagined, that he was
young and strong again. And running like there
was no tomorrow.
C H A P T E R 2 6
Borrowed Time
?
Over the next several weeks, Marley bounced
back from the edge of death. The mischievous
sparkle returned to his eyes, the cool wetness
to his nose, and a little meat to his bones. For all
he’d been through, he seemed none the worse off.
He was content to snooze his days away, favoring a
spot in front of the glass door in the family room
where the sun flooded in and baked his fur. On his
new low-bulk diet of petite meals, he was perpetually
ravenous and was begging and thieving food
more shamelessly than ever. One evening I caught
him alone in the kitchen up on his hind legs with
his front paws on the kitchen counter, stealing
Rice Krispies Treats from a platter. How he got up
there on his frail hips, I’ll never know. Infirmities
be damned; when the will called, Marley’s body
368 John Grogan
answered. I wanted to hug him, I was so happy at
the surprise display of strength.
The scare of that summer should have snapped
Jenny and me out of our denial about Marley’s advancing
age, but we quickly returned to the comfortable
assumption that the crisis was a one-time
fluke, and his eternal march into the sunset could
resume once again. Part of us wanted to believe he
could chug on forever. Despite all his frailties, he
was still the same happy-go-lucky dog. Each
morning after his breakfast, he trotted into the
family room to use the couch as a giant napkin,
walking along its length, rubbing his snout and
mouth against the fabric as he went and flipping
up the cushions in the process. Then he would
turn around and come back in the opposite direction
so he could wipe the other side. From there
he would drop to the floor and roll onto his back,
wiggling from side to side to give himself a back
rub. He liked to sit and lick the carpeting with
lust, as if it had been larded with the most delectable
gravy he had ever tasted. His daily routine
included barking at the mailman, visiting the
chickens, staring at the bird feeder, and making
the rounds of the bathtub faucets to check for any
drips of water he could lap up. Several times a day
he flipped the lid up on the kitchen trash can to
see what goodies he could scavenge. On a daily baMarley
& Me 369
sis, he launched into Labrador evader mode,
banging around the house, tail thumping the walls
and furniture, and on a daily basis I continued to
pry open his jaws and extract from the roof of his
mouth all sorts of flotsam from our daily lives—
potato skins and muffin wrappers, discarded
Kleenex and dental floss. Even in old age, some
things did not change.
As September 11, 2003, approached, I drove
across the state to the tiny mining town of
Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where United Flight 93
had crashed into an empty field on that infamous
morning two years earlier amid a passenger uprising.
The hijackers who had seized the flight were
believed to be heading for Washington, D.C., to
crash the plane into the White House or the Capitol,
and the passengers who rushed the cockpit almost
certainly saved countless lives on the ground.
To mark the second anniversary of the attacks, my
editors wanted me to visit the site and take my
best shot at capturing that sacrifice and the lasting
effect it had on the American psyche.
I spent the entire day at the crash site, lingering
at the impromptu memorial that had risen there. I
talked to the steady stream of visitors who showed
up to pay their respects, interviewed locals who
remembered the force of the explosion, sat with a
woman who had lost her daughter in a car accident
370 John Grogan
and who came to the crash site to find solace in
communal grief. I documented the many mementoes
and notes that filled the gravel parking lot.
Still I was not feeling the column. What could I
say about this immense tragedy that had not been
said already? I went to dinner in town and pored
over my notes. Writing a newspaper column is a
lot like building a tower out of blocks; each nugget
of information, each quote and captured moment,
is a block. You start by building a broad foundation,
strong enough to support your premise, then
work your way up toward the pinnacle. My notebook
was full of solid building blocks, but I was
missing the mortar to hold them all together. I had
no idea what to do with them.
After I finished my meat loaf and iced tea, I
headed back to the hotel to try to write. Halfway
there, on an impulse, I pulled a U-turn and drove
back out to the crash site, several miles outside
town, arriving just as the sun was slipping behind
the hillside and the last few visitors were pulling
away. I sat out there alone for a long time, as sunset
turned to dusk and dusk to night. A sharp
wind blew down off the hills, and I pulled my
Windbreaker tight around me. Towering overhead,
a giant American flag snapped in the breeze,
its colors glowing almost iridescent in the last
smoldering light. Only then did the emotion of
Marley & Me 371
this sacred place envelop me and the magnitude of
what happened in the sky above this lonely field
begin to sink in. I looked out on the spot where
the plane hit the earth and then up at the flag, and
I felt tears stinging my eyes. For the first time in
my life, I took the time to count the stripes. Seven
red and six white. I counted the stars, fifty of
them on a field of blue. It meant more to us now,
this American flag. To a new generation, it stood
once again for valor and sacrifice. I knew what I
needed to write.
I shoved my hands into my pockets and walked
out to the edge of the gravel lot, where I stared
into the growing blackness. Standing out there in
the dark, I felt many different things. One of them
was pride in my fellow Americans, ordinary people
who rose to the moment, knowing it was their
last. One was humility, for I was alive and untouched
by the horrors of that day, free to continue
my happy life as a husband and father and
writer. In the lonely blackness, I could almost
taste the finiteness of life and thus its preciousness.
We take it for granted, but it is fragile, precarious,
uncertain, able to cease at any instant
without notice. I was reminded of what should be
obvious but too often is not, that each day, each
hour and minute, is worth cherishing.
I felt something else, as well—an amazement at
372 John Grogan
the boundless capacity of the human heart, at
once big enough to absorb a tragedy of this magnitude
yet still find room for the little moments of
personal pain and heartache that are part of any
life. In my case, one of those little moments was
my failing dog. With a tinge of shame, I realized
that even amid the colossus of human heartbreak
that was Flight 93, I could still feel the sharp pang
of the loss I knew was coming.
Marley was living on borrowed time; that much
was clear. Another health crisis could come any
day, and when it did, I would not fight the inevitable.
Any invasive medical procedure at this
stage in his life would be cruel, something Jenny
and I would be doing more for our sake than his.
We loved that crazy old dog, loved him despite
everything—or perhaps because of everything.
But I could see now the time was near for us to let
him go. I got back in the car and returned to my
hotel room.
The next morning, my column filed, I called home
from the hotel. Jenny said, “I just want you to
know that Marley really misses you.”
“Marley?” I asked. “How about the rest of you?”
“Of course we miss you, dingo,” she said. “But
Marley & Me 373
I mean Marley really, really misses you. He’s driving
us all bonkers.”
The night before, unable to find me, Marley had
paced and sniffed the entire house over and over,
she said, poking through every room, looking behind
doors and in closets. He struggled to get upstairs
and, not finding me there, came back down
and began his search all over again. “He was really
out of sorts,” she said.
He even braved the steep descent into the basement,
where, until the slippery wooden stairs put
it off-limits to him, Marley had happily kept me
company for long hours in my workshop, snoozing
at my feet as I built things, the sawdust floating
down and covering his fur like a soft snowfall.
Once down there, he couldn’t get back up the
stairs, and he stood yipping and whining until
Jenny and the kids came to his rescue, holding him
beneath the shoulders and hips and boosting him
up step by step.
At bedtime, instead of sleeping beside our bed
as he normally did, Marley camped out on the
landing at the top of the stairs where he could
keep watch on all the bedrooms and the front door
directly at the bottom of the stairs in case I either
(1) came out of hiding; or (2) arrived home during
the night, on the chance I had snuck out without
374 John Grogan
telling him. That’s where he was the next morning
when Jenny went downstairs to make breakfast. A
couple of hours passed before it dawned on her
that Marley still had not shown his face, which was
highly unusual; he almost always was the first one
down the steps each morning, charging ahead of
us and banging his tail against the front door to go
out. She found him sleeping soundly on the floor
tight against my side of the bed. Then she saw
why. When she had gotten up, she had inadvertently
pushed her pillows—she sleeps with three
of them—over to my side of the bed, beneath the
covers, forming a large lump where I usually slept.
With his Mr. Magoo eyesight, Marley could be
forgiven for mistaking a pile of feathers for his
master. “He absolutely thought you were in
there,” she said. “I could just tell he did. He was
convinced you were sleeping in!”
We laughed together on the phone, and then
Jenny said, “You’ve got to give him points for loyalty.”
That I did. Devotion had always come easily
to our dog.
I had been back from Shanksville for only a week
when the crisis we knew could come at any time
arrived. I was in the bedroom getting dressed for
work when I heard a terrible clatter followed by
Marley & Me 375
Conor’s scream: “Help! Marley fell down the
stairs!” I came running and found him in a heap at
the bottom of the long staircase, struggling to get
to his feet. Jenny and I raced to him and ran our
hands over his body, gently squeezing his limbs,
pressing his ribs, massaging his spine. Nothing
seemed to be broken. With a groan, Marley made
it to his feet, shook off, and walked away without
so much as a limp. Conor had witnessed the fall.
He said Marley had started down the stairs but,
after just two steps, realized everyone was still upstairs
and attempted an about-face. As he tried to
turn around, his hips dropped out from beneath
him and he tumbled in a free fall down the entire
length of the stairs.
“Wow, was he lucky,” I said. “A fall like that
could have killed him.”
“I can’t believe he didn’t get hurt,” Jenny said.
“He’s like a cat with nine lives.”
But he had gotten hurt. Within minutes he was
stiffening up, and by the time I arrived home from
work that night, Marley was completely incapacitated,
unable to move. He seemed to be sore
everywhere, as though he had been worked over
by thugs. What really had him laid up, though,
was his front left leg; he was unable to put any
weight at all on it. I could squeeze it without him
yelping, and I suspected he had pulled a tendon.
376 John Grogan
When he saw me, he tried to struggle to his feet to
greet me, but it was no use. His left front paw was
useless, and with his weak back legs, he just had
no power to do anything. Marley was down to one
good limb, lousy odds for any four-legged beast.
He finally made it up and tried to hop on three
paws to get to me, but his back legs caved in and
he collapsed back to the floor. Jenny gave him an
aspirin and held a bag of ice to his front leg. Marley,
playful even under duress, kept trying to eat
the ice cubes.
By ten-thirty that night, he was no better, and
he hadn’t been outside to empty his bladder since
one o’clock that afternoon. He had been holding
his urine for nearly ten hours. I had no idea how to
get him outside and back in again so he could relieve
himself. Straddling him and clasping my
hands beneath his chest, I lifted him to his feet.
Together we waddled our way to the front door,
with me holding him up as he hopped along. But
out on the porch stoop he froze. A steady rain was
falling, and the porch steps, his nemesis, loomed
slick and wet before him. He looked unnerved.
“Come on,” I said. “Just a quick pee and we’ll go
right back inside.” He would have no part of it. I
wished I could have persuaded him to just go right
on the porch and be done with it, but there was no
teaching this old dog that new trick. He hopped
Marley & Me 377
back inside and stared morosely up at me as if
apologizing for what he knew was coming. “We’ll
try again later,” I said. As if hearing his cue, he
half squatted on his three remaining legs and
emptied his full bladder on the foyer floor, a puddle
spreading out around him. It was the first time
since he was a tiny puppy that Marley had urinated
in the house.
The next morning Marley was better, though
still hobbling about like an invalid. We got him
outside, where he urinated and defecated without
a problem. On the count of three, Jenny and I together
lifted him up the porch stairs to get him
back inside. “I have a feeling,” I told her, “that
Marley will never see the upstairs of this house
again.” It was apparent he had climbed his last
staircase. From now on, he would have to get used
to living and sleeping on the ground floor.
I worked from home that day and was upstairs
in the bedroom, writing a column on my laptop
computer, when I heard a commotion on the
stairs. I stopped typing and listened. The sound
was instantly familiar, a sort of loud clomping
noise as if a shod horse were galloping up a gangplank.
I looked at the bedroom doorway and held
my breath. A few seconds later, Marley popped his
head around the corner and came sauntering into
the room. His eyes brightened when he spotted
378 John Grogan
me. So there you are! He smashed his head into
my lap, begging for an ear rub, which I figured he
had earned.
“Marley, you made it!” I exclaimed. “You old
hound! I can’t believe you’re up here!”
Later, as I sat on the floor with him and scruffed
his neck, he twisted his head around and gamely
gummed my wrist in his jaws. It was a good sign, a
telltale of the playful puppy still in him. The day
he sat still and let me pet him without trying to
engage me would be the day I knew he had had
enough. The previous night he had seemed on
death’s door, and I again had braced myself for the
worst. Today he was panting and pawing and trying
to slime my hands off. Just when I thought his
long, lucky run was over, he was back.
I pulled his head up and made him look me in
the eyes. “You’re going to tell me when it’s time,
right?” I said, more a statement than a question. I
didn’t want to have to make the decision on my
own. “You’ll let me know, won’t you?”
C H A P T E R 2 7
The Big Meadow
?
Winter arrived early that year, and as the
days grew short and the winds howled
through the frozen branches, we cocooned into
our snug home. I chopped and split a winter’s
worth of firewood and stacked it by the back door.
Jenny made hearty soups and homemade breads,
and the children once again sat in the window and
waited for the snow to arrive. I anticipated the
first snowfall, too, but with a quiet sense of dread,
wondering how Marley could possibly make it
through another tough winter. The previous one
had been hard enough on him, and he had weakened
markedly, dramatically, in the ensuing year. I
wasn’t sure how he would navigate ice-glazed
sidewalks, slippery stairs, and a snow-covered
landscape. It was dawning on me why the elderly
retired to Florida and Arizona.
380 John Grogan
On a blustery Sunday night in mid-December,
when the children had finished their homework
and practiced their musical instruments, Jenny
started the popcorn on the stove and declared a
family movie night. The kids raced to pick out a
video, and I whistled for Marley, taking him outside
with me to fetch a basket of maple logs off
the woodpile. He poked around in the frozen grass
as I loaded up the wood, standing with his face
into the wind, wet nose sniffing the icy air as if divining
winter’s descent. I clapped my hands and
waved my arms to get his attention, and he followed
me inside, hesitating at the front porch
steps before summoning his courage and lurching
forward, dragging his back legs up behind him.
Inside, I got the fire humming as the kids
queued up the movie. The flames leapt and the
heat radiated into the room, prompting Marley, as
was his habit, to claim the best spot for himself,
directly in front of the hearth. I lay down on the
floor a few feet from him and propped my head on
a pillow, more watching the fire than the movie.
Marley didn’t want to lose his warm spot, but he
couldn’t resist this opportunity. His favorite human
was at ground level in the prone position, utterly
defenseless. Who was the alpha male now?
His tail began pounding the floor. Then he started
wiggling his way in my direction. He sashayed
Marley & Me 381
from side to side on his belly, his rear legs
stretched out behind him, and soon he was
pressed up against me, grinding his head into my
ribs. The minute I reached out to pet him, it was
all over. He pushed himself up on his paws, shook
hard, showering me in loose fur, and stared down
at me, his billowing jowls hanging immediately
over my face. When I started to laugh, he took this
as a green light to advance, and before I quite
knew what was happening, he had straddled my
chest with his front paws and, in one big free fall,
collapsed on top of me in a heap. “Ugh!” I
screamed under his weight. “Full-frontal Lab attack!”
The kids squealed. Marley could not believe
his good fortune. I wasn’t even trying to get
him off me. He squirmed, he drooled, he licked
me all over the face and nuzzled my neck. I could
barely breathe under his weight, and after a few
minutes I slid him half off me, where he remained
through most of the movie, his head, shoulder,
and one paw resting on my chest, the rest of him
pressed against my side.
I didn’t say so to anyone in the room, but I
found myself clinging to the moment, knowing
there would not be too many more like it. Marley
was in the quiet dusk of a long and eventful life.
Looking back on it later, I would recognize that
night in front of the fire for what it was, our
382 John Grogan
farewell party. I stroked his head until he fell
asleep, and then I stroked it some more.
Four days later, we packed the minivan in
preparation for a family vacation to Disney World
in Florida. It would be the children’s first Christmas
away from home, and they were wild with excitement.
That evening, in preparation for an
early-morning departure, Jenny delivered Marley
to the veterinarian’s office, where she had
arranged for him to spend our week away in the
intensive care unit where the doctors and workers
could keep their eyes on him around the clock and
where he would not be riled by the other dogs. After
his close call on their watch the previous summer,
they were happy to give him the Cadillac digs
and extra attention at no extra cost.
That night as we finished packing, both Jenny
and I commented on how strange it felt to be in a
dog-free zone. There was no oversized canine
constantly underfoot, shadowing our every move,
trying to sneak out the door with us each time we
carried a bag to the garage. The freedom was liberating,
but the house seemed cavernous and
empty, even with the kids bouncing off the walls.
The next morning before the sun was over the
tree line, we piled into the minivan and headed
south. Ridiculing the whole Disney experience is a
favorite sport in the circle of parents I run with.
Marley & Me 383
I’ve lost track of how many times I’ve said, “We
could take the whole family to Paris for the same
amount of money.” But the whole family had a
wonderful time, even naysayer Dad. Of the many
potential pitfalls—sickness, fatigue-induced
tantrums, lost tickets, lost children, sibling
fistfights—we escaped them all. It was a great
family vacation, and we spent much of the long
drive back north recounting the pros and cons of
each ride, each meal, each swim, each moment.
When we were halfway through Maryland, just
four hours from home, my cell phone rang. It was
one of the workers from the veterinarian’s office.
Marley was acting lethargic, she said, and his hips
had begun to droop worse than usual. He seemed
to be in discomfort. She said the vet wanted our
permission to give him a steroid shot and pain
medication. Sure, I said. Keep him comfortable,
and we’d be there to pick him up the next day.
When Jenny arrived to take him home the following
afternoon, December 29, Marley looked
tired and a little out of sorts but not visibly ill. As
we had been warned, his hips were weaker than
ever. The doctor talked to her about putting him
on a regimen of arthritis medications, and a
worker helped Jenny lift him into the minivan. But
within a half hour of getting him home, he was
retching, trying to clear thick mucus from his
384 John Grogan
throat. Jenny let him out into the front yard, and
he simply lay on the frozen ground and could not
or would not budge. She called me at work in a
panic. “I can’t get him back inside,” she said.
“He’s lying out there in the cold, and he won’t get
up.” I left immediately, and by the time I arrived
home forty-five minutes later, she had managed to
get him to his feet and back into the house. I found
him sprawled on the dining room floor, clearly distressed
and clearly not himself.
In thirteen years I had not been able to walk into
the house without him bounding to his feet,
stretching, shaking, panting, banging his tail into
everything, greeting me like I’d just returned from
the Hundred Years’ War. Not on this day. His eyes
followed me as I walked into the room, but he did
not move his head. I knelt down beside him and
rubbed his snout. No reaction. He did not try to
gum my wrist, did not want to play, did not even
lift his head. His eyes were far away, and his tail lay
limp on the floor.
Jenny had left two messages at the animal hospital
and was waiting for a vet to call back, but it was
becoming obvious this was turning into an emergency.
I put a third call in. After several minutes,
Marley slowly stood up on shaky legs and tried to
retch again, but nothing would come out. That’s
when I noticed his stomach; it looked bigger than
Marley & Me 385
usual, and it was hard to the touch. My heart sank;
I knew what this meant. I called back the veterinarian’s
office, and this time I described Marley’s
bloated stomach. The receptionist put me on hold
for a moment, then came back and said, “The
doctor says to bring him right in.”
Jenny and I did not have to say a word to each
other; we both understood that the moment had
arrived. We braced the kids, telling them Marley
had to go to the hospital and the doctors were going
to try to make him better, but that he was very
sick. As I was getting ready to go, I looked in, and
Jenny and the kids were huddled around him as he
lay on the floor so clearly in distress, making their
good-byes. They each got to pet him and have a
few last moments with him. The children remained
bullishly optimistic that this dog who had
been a constant part of their lives would soon be
back, good as new. “Get all better, Marley,”
Colleen said in her little voice.
With Jenny’s help, I got him into the back of my
car. She gave him a last quick hug, and I drove off
with him, promising to call as soon as I learned
something. He lay on the floor in the backseat
with his head resting on the center hump, and I
drove with one hand on the wheel and the other
stretched behind me so I could stroke his head and
shoulders. “Oh, Marley,” I just kept saying.
386 John Grogan
In the parking lot of the animal hospital, I
helped him out of the car, and he stopped to sniff
a tree where the other dogs all pee—still curious
despite how ill he felt. I gave him a minute, knowing
this might be his last time in his beloved outdoors,
then tugged gently at his choker chain and
led him into the lobby. Just inside the front door,
he decided he had gone far enough and gingerly
let himself down on the tile floor. When the techs
and I were unable to get him back to his feet, they
brought out a stretcher, slid him onto it, and disappeared
with him behind the counter, heading
for the examining area.
A few minutes later, the vet, a young woman I
had never met before, came out and led me into an
exam room where she put a pair of X-ray films up
on a light board. She showed me how his stomach
had bloated to twice its normal size. On the film,
near where the stomach meets the intestines, she
traced two fist-sized dark spots, which she said indicated
a twist. Just as with the last time, she said
she would sedate him and insert a tube into his
stomach to release the gas causing the bloating.
She would then use the tube to manually feel for
the back of the stomach. “It’s a long shot,” she
said, “but I’m going to try to use the tube to massage
his stomach back into place.” It was exactly
the same one percent gamble Dr. Hopkinson had
Marley & Me 387
given over the summer. It had worked once, it
could work again. I remained silently optimistic.
“Okay,” I said. “Please give it your best shot.”
A half hour later she emerged with a grim face.
She had tried three times and was unable to open
the blockage. She had given him more sedatives in
the hope they might relax his stomach muscles.
When none of that worked, she had inserted a
catheter through his ribs, a last-ditch attempt to
clear the blockage, also without luck. “At this
point,” she said, “our only real option is to go into
surgery.” She paused, as if gauging whether I was
ready to talk about the inevitable, and then said,
“Or the most humane thing might be to put him
to sleep.”
Jenny and I had been through this decision five
months earlier and had already made the hard
choice. My visit to Shanksville had only solidified
my resolve not to subject Marley to any more suffering.
Yet standing in the waiting room, the hour
upon me once again, I stood frozen. The doctor
sensed my agony and discussed the complications
that could likely be expected in operating on a dog
of Marley’s age. Another thing troubling her, she
said, was a bloody residue that had come out on
the catheter, indicating problems with the stomach
wall. “Who knows what we might find when
we get in there,” she said.
388 John Grogan
I told her I wanted to step outside to call my
wife. On the cell phone in the parking lot, I told
Jenny that they had tried everything short of surgery
to no avail. We sat silently on the phone for a
long moment before she said, “I love you, John.”
“I love you, too, Jenny,” I said.
I walked back inside and asked the doctor if I
could have a couple of minutes alone with him.
She warned me that he was heavily sedated. “Take
all the time you need,” she said. I found him unconscious
on the stretcher on the floor, an IV
shunt in his forearm. I got down on my knees and
ran my fingers through his fur, the way he liked. I
ran my hand down his back. I lifted each floppy
ear in my hands—those crazy ears that had caused
him so many problems over the years and cost us a
king’s ransom—and felt their weight. I pulled his
lip up and looked at his lousy, worn-out teeth. I
picked up a front paw and cupped it in my hand.
Then I dropped my forehead against his and sat
there for a long time, as if I could telegraph a message
through our two skulls, from my brain to his.
I wanted to make him understand some things.
“You know all that stuff we’ve always said about
you?” I whispered. “What a total pain you are?
Don’t believe it. Don’t believe it for a minute,
Marley.” He needed to know that, and something
more, too. There was something I had never told
Marley & Me 389
him, that no one ever had. I wanted him to hear it
before he went.
“Marley,” I said. “You are a great dog.”
I found the doctor waiting at the front counter.
“I’m ready,” I said. My voice was cracking, which
surprised me because I had really believed I’d
braced myself months earlier for this moment. I
knew if I said another word, I would break down,
and so I just nodded and signed as she handed me
release forms. When the paperwork was completed,
I followed her back to the unconscious
Marley, and I knelt in front of him again, my
hands cradling his head as she prepared a syringe
and inserted it into the shunt. “Are you okay?” she
asked. I nodded, and she pushed the plunger. His
jaw shuddered ever so slightly. She listened to his
heart and said it had slowed way down but not
stopped. He was a big dog. She prepared a second
syringe and again pushed the plunger. A minute
later, she listened again and said, “He’s gone.” She
left me alone with him, and I gently lifted one of
his eyelids. She was right; Marley was gone.
I walked out to the front desk and paid the bill.
She discussed “group cremation” for $75 or individual
cremation, with the ashes returned, for
$170. No, I said; I would be taking him home. A
390 John Grogan
few minutes later, she and an assistant wheeled out
a cart with a large black bag on it and helped me
lift it into the backseat. The doctor shook my
hand, told me how sorry she was. She had done
her best, she said. It was his time, I said, then
thanked her and drove away.
In the car on the way home, I started to cry,
something I almost never do, not even at funerals.
It only lasted a few minutes. By the time I pulled
into the driveway, I was dry-eyed again. I left
Marley in the car and went inside where Jenny was
sitting up, waiting. The children were all in bed
asleep; we would tell them in the morning. We fell
into each other’s arms and both started weeping. I
tried to describe it to her, to assure her he was already
deeply asleep when the end came, that there
was no panic, no trauma, no pain. But I couldn’t
find the words. So we simply rocked in each
other’s arms. Later, we went outside and together
lifted the heavy black bag out of the car and into
the garden cart, which I rolled into the garage for
the night.
C H A P T E R 2 8
Beneath the Cherry Trees
?
Sleep came fitfully that night, and an hour before
dawn I slid out of bed and dressed quietly
so as not to wake Jenny. In the kitchen I drank a
glass of water—coffee could wait—and walked
out into a light, slushy drizzle. I grabbed a shovel
and pickax and walked to the pea patch, which
hugged the white pines where Marley had sought
potty refuge the previous winter. It was here I had
decided to lay him to rest.
The temperature was in the mid-thirties and
the ground blessedly unfrozen. In the half dark, I
began to dig. Once I was through a thin layer of
topsoil, I hit heavy, dense clay studded with
rocks—the backfill from the excavation of our
basement—and the going was slow and arduous.
After fifteen minutes I peeled off my coat and
paused to catch my breath. After thirty minutes I
392 John Grogan
was in a sweat and not yet down two feet. At the
forty-five-minute mark, I struck water. The hole
began to fill. And fill. Soon a foot of muddy cold
water covered the bottom. I fetched a bucket and
tried to bail it, but more water just seeped in.
There was no way I could lay Marley down in that
icy swamp. No way.
Despite the work I had invested in it—my heart
was pounding like I had just run a marathon—I
abandoned the location and scouted the yard,
stopping where the lawn meets the woods at the
bottom of the hill. Between two big native cherry
trees, their branches arching above me in the gray
light of dawn like an open-air cathedral, I sunk
my shovel. These were the same trees Marley and
I had narrowly missed on our wild toboggan ride,
and I said out loud, “This feels right.” The spot
was beyond where the bulldozers had spread the
shale substrata, and the native soil was light and
well drained, a gardener’s dream. Digging went
easily, and I soon had an oval hole roughly two by
three feet around and four feet deep. I went inside
and found all three kids up, sniffling quietly. Jenny
had just told them.
Seeing them grieving—their first up-close experience
with death—deeply affected me. Yes, it
was only a dog, and dogs come and go in the
course of a human life, sometimes simply because
Marley & Me 393
they become an inconvenience. It was only a dog,
and yet every time I tried to talk about Marley to
them, tears welled in my eyes. I told them it was
okay to cry, and that owning a dog always ended
with this sadness because dogs just don’t live as
long as people do. I told them how Marley was
sleeping when they gave him the shot and that he
didn’t feel a thing. He just drifted off and was
gone. Colleen was upset that she didn’t have a
chance to say a real good-bye to him; she thought
he would be coming home. I told her I had said
good-bye for all of us. Conor, our budding author,
showed me something he had made for Marley, to
go in the grave with him. It was a drawing of a big
red heart beneath which he had written: “To Marley,
I hope you know how much I loved you all of
my life. You were always there when I needed you.
Through life or death, I will always love you. Your
brother, Conor Richard Grogan.” Then Colleen
drew a picture of a girl with a big yellow dog and
beneath it, with spelling help from her brother,
she wrote, “P.S.—I will never forget you.”
I went out alone and wheeled Marley’s body
down the hill, where I cut an armful of soft pine
boughs that I laid on the floor of the hole. I lifted
the heavy body bag off the cart and down into the
hole as gently as I could, though there was really
no graceful way to do it. I got into the hole,
394 John Grogan
opened the bag to see him one last time, and positioned
him in a comfortable, natural way—just as
he might be lying in front of the fireplace, curled
up, head tucked around to his side. “Okay, big
guy, this is it,” I said. I closed the bag up and returned
to the house to get Jenny and the kids.
As a family, we walked down to the grave.
Conor and Colleen had sealed their notes back-toback
in a plastic bag, and I placed it right beside
Marley’s head. Patrick used his jackknife to cut
five pine boughs, one for each of us. One by one,
we dropped them in the hole, their scent rising
around us. We paused for a moment, then all together,
as if we had rehearsed it, said, “Marley, we
love you.” I picked up the shovel and tossed the
first scoop of dirt in. It slapped heavily on the
plastic, making an ugly sound, and Jenny began to
weep. I kept shoveling. The kids stood watching
in silence.
When the hole was half filled, I took a break
and we all walked up to the house, where we sat
around the kitchen table and told funny Marley
stories. One minute tears were welling in our eyes,
the next we were laughing. Jenny told the story of
Marley going bonkers during the filming of The
Last Home Run when a stranger picked up baby
Conor. I told about all the leashes he had severed
and the time he peed on our neighbor’s ankle. We
Marley & Me 395
described all the things he had destroyed and the
thousands of dollars he had cost us. We could
laugh about it now. To make the kids feel better, I
told them something I did not quite believe.
“Marley’s spirit is up in dog heaven now,” I said.
“He’s in a giant golden meadow, running free.
And his hips are good again. And his hearing is
back, and his eyesight is sharp, and he has all his
teeth. He’s back in his prime—chasing rabbits all
day long.”
Jenny added, “And having endless screen doors
to crash through.” The image of him barging his
way oafishly through heaven got a laugh out of
everyone.
The morning was slipping away, and I still
needed to go to work. I went back down to his
grave alone and finished filling the hole, gently, respectfully,
using my boot to tamp down the loose
earth. When the hole was flush with the ground, I
placed two large rocks from the woods on top of
it, then went inside, took a hot shower, and drove
to the office.
In the days immediately after we buried Marley,
the whole family went silent. The animal that was
the amusing target of so many hours of conversation
and stories over the years had become a taboo
396 John Grogan
topic. We were trying to return our lives to normal,
and speaking of him only made it harder.
Colleen in particular could not bear to hear his
name or see his photo. Tears would well in her
eyes and she would clench her fists and say angrily,
“I don’t want to talk about him!”
I resumed my schedule, driving to work, writing
my column, coming home again. Every night
for thirteen years he had waited for me at the door.
Walking in now at the end of the day was the most
painful part of all. The house seemed silent,
empty, not quite a home anymore. Jenny vacuumed
like a fiend, determined to get up the bucketsful
of Marley fur that had been falling out in
massive clumps for the past couple of years, insinuating
itself into every crevice and fold. Slowly,
the signs of the old dog were being erased. One
morning I went to put my shoes on, and inside
them, covering the insoles, lay a carpet of Marley
fur, picked up by my socks from walking on the
floors and gradually deposited inside the shoes. I
just sat and looked at it—actually petted it with
two fingers—and smiled. I held it up to show
Jenny and said, “We’re not getting rid of him that
easy.” She laughed, but that evening in our bedroom,
Jenny—who had not said much all week—
blurted out: “I miss him. I mean I really, really
miss him. I ache-inside miss him.”
Marley & Me 397
“I know,” I said. “I do, too.”
I wanted to write a farewell column to Marley,
but I was afraid all my emotion would pour out
into a gushy, maudlin piece of self-indulgence that
would only humiliate me. So I stuck with topics
less dear to my heart. I did, however, carry a tape
recorder with me, and when a thought came to
me, I would get it down. I knew I wanted to portray
him as he was and not as some impossibly
perfect reincarnation of Old Yeller or Rin Tin
Tin, as if there were any danger of that. So many
people remake their pets in death, turning them
into supernatural, noble beasts that in life did
everything for their masters except fry eggs for
breakfast. I wanted to be honest. Marley was a
funny, bigger-than-life pain in the ass who never
quite got the hang of the whole chain-ofcommand
thing. Honestly, he might well have
been the world’s worst-behaved dog. Yet he intuitively
grasped from the start what it meant to be
man’s best friend.
During the week after his death, I walked down
the hill several times to stand by his grave. Partly,
I wanted to make sure no wild animals were coming
around at night. The grave remained undisturbed,
but already I could see that in the spring I
would need to add a couple of wheelbarrows of
soil to fill the depression where it was settling.
398 John Grogan
Mostly I just wanted to commune with him.
Standing there, I found myself replaying random
snippets from his life. I was embarrassed by how
deep my grief went for this dog, deeper than for
some humans I had known. It’s not that I equated
a dog’s life with a human’s, but outside my immediate
family few people had given themselves so
selflessly to me. Secretly, I brought Marley’s
choker chain in from the car, where it had sat since
his final ride to the hospital, and stashed it beneath
the underwear in my dresser, where each morning
I could reach down and touch it.
I walked around all week with a dull ache inside.
It was actually physical, not unlike a stomach
virus. I was lethargic, unmotivated. I couldn’t
even muster the energy to indulge my hobbies—
playing guitar, woodworking, reading. I felt out of
sorts, not sure what to do with myself. I ended up
going to bed early most nights, at nine-thirty, ten
o’clock.
On New Year’s Eve we were invited to a neighbor’s
house for a party. Friends quietly expressed
their condolences, but we all tried to keep the
conversation light and moving. This was, after
all, New Year’s Eve. At dinner, Sara and Dave
Pandl, a pair of landscape architects who had
moved back to Pennsylvania from California to
turn an old stone barn into their home, and who
Marley & Me 399
had become our dear friends, sat at one corner of
the table with me, and we talked at length about
dogs and love and loss. Dave and Sara had put
down their cherished Nelly, an Australian shepherd,
five years earlier and buried her on the hill
beside their farmhouse. Dave is one of the most
unsentimental people I have ever met, a quiet
stoic cut from taciturn Pennsylvania Dutch stock.
But when it came to Nelly, he, too, struggled with
a deep inner grief. He told me how he combed
the rocky woods behind his home for days until
he found the perfect stone for her grave. It was
naturally shaped like a heart, and he took it to a
stone carver who inscribed “Nelly” into its surface.
All these years later, the death of that dog
still touched them profoundly. Their eyes misted
up as they told me about her. As Sara said, blinking
back her tears, sometimes a dog comes along
that really touches your life, and you can never
forget her.
That weekend I took a long walk through the
woods, and by the time I arrived at work on Monday,
I knew what I wanted to say about the dog
that touched my life, the one I would never forget.
I began the column by describing my walk
down the hill with the shovel at dawn and how odd
it was to be outdoors without Marley, who for
thirteen years had made it his business to be at my
400 John Grogan
side for any excursion. “And now here I was
alone,” I wrote, “digging him this hole.”
I quoted my father who, when I told him I had
to put the old guy down, gave the closest thing to a
compliment my dog had ever received: “There
will never be another dog like Marley.”
I gave a lot of thought to how I should describe
him, and this is what I settled on: “No one ever
called him a great dog—or even a good dog. He
was as wild as a banshee and as strong as a bull. He
crashed joyously through life with a gusto most often
associated with natural disasters. He’s the only
dog I’ve ever known to get expelled from obedience
school.” I continued: “Marley was a chewer
of couches, a slasher of screens, a slinger of drool,
a tipper of trash cans. As for brains, let me just say
he chased his tail till the day he died, apparently
convinced he was on the verge of a major canine
breakthrough.” There was more to him than that,
however, and I described his intuition and empathy,
his gentleness with children, his pure heart.
What I really wanted to say was how this animal
had touched our souls and taught us some of the
most important lessons of our lives. “A person can
learn a lot from a dog, even a loopy one like ours,”
I wrote. “Marley taught me about living each day
with unbridled exuberance and joy, about seizing
Marley & Me 401
the moment and following your heart. He taught
me to appreciate the simple things—a walk in the
woods, a fresh snowfall, a nap in a shaft of winter
sunlight. And as he grew old and achy, he taught
me about optimism in the face of adversity.
Mostly, he taught me about friendship and selflessness
and, above all else, unwavering loyalty.”
It was an amazing concept that I was only now,
in the wake of his death, fully absorbing: Marley
as mentor. As teacher and role model. Was it possible
for a dog—any dog, but especially a nutty,
wildly uncontrollable one like ours—to point humans
to the things that really mattered in life? I
believed it was. Loyalty. Courage. Devotion. Simplicity.
Joy. And the things that did not matter,
too. A dog has no use for fancy cars or big homes
or designer clothes. Status symbols mean nothing
to him. A waterlogged stick will do just fine. A
dog judges others not by their color or creed or
class but by who they are inside. A dog doesn’t
care if you are rich or poor, educated or illiterate,
clever or dull. Give him your heart and he will give
you his. It was really quite simple, and yet we humans,
so much wiser and more sophisticated, have
always had trouble figuring out what really counts
and what does not. As I wrote that farewell column
to Marley, I realized it was all right there in
402 John Grogan
front of us, if only we opened our eyes. Sometimes
it took a dog with bad breath, worse manners,
and pure intentions to help us see.
I finished my column, turned it in to my editor,
and drove home for the night, feeling somehow
lighter, almost buoyant, as though a weight I did
not even know I had been carrying was lifted
from me.
C H A P T E R 2 9
The Bad Dog Club
?
When I arrived at work the next morning,
the red message light on my telephone was
blinking. I punched in my access code and received
a recorded warning I had never heard before.
“Your mailbox is full,” the voice said.
“Please delete all unneeded messages.”
I logged on to my computer and opened my
e-mail. Same story. The opening screen was filled
with new messages, and so was the next screen,
and the one after that, and after that, too. The
morning e-mail was a ritual for me, a visceral, if
inexact, barometer of the impact that day’s column
had made. Some columns brought as few as
five or ten responses, and on those days I knew I
had not connected. Others brought several dozen,
a good day. A few brought even more. But this
morning there were hundreds, far more than any404
John Grogan
thing I had received before. The headers at the top
of the e-mails said things like “Deepest condolences,”
“About your loss,” or simply “Marley.”
Animal lovers are a special breed of human,
generous of spirit, full of empathy, perhaps a little
prone to sentimentality, and with hearts as big as a
cloudless sky. Most who wrote and called simply
wanted to express their sympathies, to tell me
they, too, had been down this road and knew what
my family was going through. Others had dogs
whose lives were drawing to their inevitable ends;
they dreaded what they knew was coming, just as
we had dreaded it, too.
One couple wrote, “We fully understand and we
mourn for your loss of Marley, and for our loss of
Rusty. They’ll always be missed, never truly replaced.”
A reader named Joyce wrote, “Thanks
for reminding us of Duncan, who lies buried in
our own backyard.” A suburbanite named Debi
added: “Our family understands how you feel.
This past Labor Day we had to put our golden retriever
Chewy to sleep. He was thirteen and had
many of the same afflictions you named with your
dog. When he couldn’t even get up to go outside to
relieve himself that last day, we knew we couldn’t
let him keep suffering. We, too, had a burial in our
backyard, under a red maple that will always be
his memorial.”
Marley & Me 405
An employment recruiter named Monica, owner
of Katie the Lab, wrote: “My condolences and
tears to you. My girl Katie is only two and I always
think, ‘Monica, why did you go and let this wonderful
creature steal your heart like this?’ ” From
Carmela: “Marley must have been a great dog to
have a family that loved him so much. Only dog
owners can understand the unconditional love
they give and the tremendous heartache when
they are gone.” From Elaine: “Such short little
lives our pets have to spend with us, and they
spend most of it waiting for us to come home each
day. It is amazing how much love and laughter
they bring into our lives and even how much
closer we become with each other because of
them.” From Nancy: “Dogs are one of the wonders
of life and add so very much to ours.” From
MaryPat: “To this day I miss the sound of Max’s
tags jingling as he padded through the house
checking things out; that silence will drive you
nuts for a while, especially at night.” From Connie:
“It’s just the most amazing thing to love a
dog, isn’t it? It makes our relationships with people
seem as boring as a bowl of oatmeal.”
When the messages finally stopped coming several
days later, I counted them up. Nearly eight
hundred people, animal lovers all, had been
moved to contact me. It was an incredible out406
John Grogan
pouring, and what a catharsis it was for me. By the
time I had plowed through them all—and answered
as many as I could—I felt better, as though
I was part of a giant cyber-support group. My private
mourning had become a public therapy session,
and in this crowd there was no shame in
admitting a real, piercing grief for something as
seemingly inconsequential as an old, smelly dog.
My correspondents wrote and called for another
reason, too. They wanted to dispute the central
premise of my report, the part in which I insisted
Marley was the world’s worst-behaved animal.
“Excuse me,” the typical response went, “but
yours couldn’t have been the world’s worst dog—
because mine was.” To make their case, they regaled
me with detailed accounts of their pets’
woeful behavior. I heard about shredded curtains,
stolen lingerie, devoured birthday cakes, trashed
auto interiors, great escapes, even a swallowed diamond
engagement ring, which made Marley’s
taste for gold chains seem positively lowbrow by
comparison. My in-box resembled a television
talk show, Bad Dogs and the People Who Love
Them, with the willing victims lining up to
proudly brag, not about how wonderful their dogs
were but about just how awful. Oddly enough,
most of the horror stories involved large loopy retrievers
just like mine. We weren’t alone after all.
Marley & Me 407
A woman named Elyssa described how her Lab
Mo always broke out of the house when left alone,
usually by crashing through window screens.
Elyssa and her husband thought they had foiled
Mo’s wandering ways by closing and locking all
the ground-floor windows. It hadn’t occurred to
them to close the upstairs windows, as well. “One
day my husband came home and saw the secondfloor
screen hanging loose. He was scared to death
to look for him,” she wrote. Just as her husband
began to fear the worst, “Mo all of a sudden came
around the corner of the house with his head
down. He knew he was in trouble, but we were
amazed he was not hurt. He had flown through the
window and landed on a sturdy bush that broke
his fall.”
Larry the Lab swallowed his mistress’s bra and
then burped it up in one piece ten days later.
Gypsy, another Lab with adventurous tastes, devoured
a jalousie window. Jason, a retriever–Irish
setter mix, downed a five-foot vacuum cleaner
hose, “interior reinforcing wire and all,” his owner,
Mike, reported. “Jason also ate a two-bythree-
foot hole in a plaster wall and backhoed a
three-foot-long trench in the carpet, stretching
back from his favorite spot by the window,” Mike
wrote, adding, “but I loved that beast.”
Phoebe, a Lab mix, was kicked out of two dif408
John Grogan
ferent boarding kennels and told never to return,
owner Aimee wrote. “It seems she was the gang
leader in breaking out of not only her cage but doing
the favor for two other dogs, too. They then
helped themselves to all kinds of snacks during
the overnight hours.” Hayden, a hundred-pound
Lab, ate just about anything he could get his jaws
around, owner Carolyn reported, including a
whole box of fish food, a pair of suede loafers, and
a tube of superglue, “not in the same sitting.” She
added: “His finest hour, though, was when he tore
the garage-door frame out of the wall because I
had foolishly attached his leash to it so he could lie
in the sunshine.”
Tim reported his yellow Lab Ralph was every
bit as much a food thief as Marley, only smarter.
One day before going out, Tim placed a large
chocolate centerpiece on top of the refrigerator
where it would be safely out of Ralph’s reach. The
dog, his owner reported, pawed open the cupboard
drawers, then used them as stairs to climb
onto the counter, where he could balance on his
hind legs and reach the chocolate, which was gone
without a trace when his master returned home.
Despite the chocolate overdose, Ralph showed no
ill effects. “Another time,” Tim wrote, “Ralph
opened the refrigerator and emptied its contents,
including things in jars.”
Marley & Me 409
Nancy clipped my column to save because Marley
reminded her so much of her retriever Gracie.
“I left the article on the kitchen table and turned
to put away the scissors,” Nancy wrote. “When I
turned back, sure enough, Gracie had eaten the
column.”
Wow, I was feeling better by the minute. Marley
no longer sounded all that terrible. If nothing else,
he certainly had plenty of company in the Bad
Dog Club. I brought several of the messages home
to share with Jenny, who laughed for the first time
since Marley’s death. My new friends in the Secret
Brotherhood of Dysfunctional Dog Owners had
helped us more than they ever would know.
The days turned into weeks and winter melted
into spring. Daffodils pushed up through the earth
and bloomed around Marley’s grave, and delicate
white cherry blossoms floated down to rest on it.
Gradually, life without our dog became more comfortable.
Days would float by without me even
thinking of him, and then some little cue—one of
his hairs on my sweater, the rattle of his choker
chain as I reached into my drawer for a pair of
socks—would bring him abruptly back. As time
passed, the recollections were more pleasant than
painful. Long-forgotten moments flashed in my
410 John Grogan
head with vivid clarity like clips being rerun from
old home videos: The way Lisa the stabbing victim
had leaned over and kissed Marley on the
snout after she got out of the hospital. The way
the crew on the movie set fawned over him. The
way the mail lady slipped him a treat each day at
the front door. The way he held mangoes in his
front paws as he nibbled out the flesh. The way he
snapped at the babies’ diapers with that look of
narcotic bliss on his face, and the way he begged
for his tranquilizers like they were steak bits. Little
moments hardly worth remembering, and yet
here they were, randomly playing out on my mental
movie screen at the least likely times and
places. Most of them made me smile; a few made
me bite my lip and pause.
I was in a staff meeting at the office when this
one came to me: It was back in West Palm Beach
when Marley was still a puppy and Jenny and I
were still dreamy-eyed newlyweds. We were
strolling along the Intracoastal Waterway on a
crisp winter’s day, holding hands, Marley out in
front, tugging us along. I let him hop up on the
concrete breakwater, which was about two feet
wide and three feet above the water’s surface.
“John,” Jenny protested. “He could fall in.” I
looked at her dubiously. “How dumb do you think
he is?” I asked. “What do you think he’ll do? Just
Marley & Me 411
walk right off the edge into thin air?” Ten seconds
later, that’s exactly what he did, landing in the water
with a huge splash and requiring a complicated
rescue operation on our part to get him back up
the wall and onto land again.
A few days later I was driving to an interview
when out of nowhere came another early scene
from our marriage: a romantic getaway weekend
to a beachfront cottage on Sanibel Island before
children arrived. The bride, the groom—and
Marley. I had completely forgotten about that
weekend, and here it was again, replaying in living
color: driving across the state with him wedged
between us, his nose occasionally bumping the
gearshift lever into neutral. Bathing him in the tub
of our rental place after a day on the beach, suds
and water and sand flying everywhere. And later,
Jenny and I making love beneath the cool cotton
sheets, an ocean breeze wafting over us, Marley’s
otter tail thumping against the mattress.
He was a central player in some of the happiest
chapters of our lives. Chapters of young love
and new beginnings, of budding careers and tiny
babies. Of heady successes and crushing disappointments;
of discovery and freedom and selfrealization.
He came into our lives just as we were
trying to figure out what they would become. He
joined us as we grappled with what every couple
412 John Grogan
must eventually confront, the sometimes painful
process of forging from two distinct pasts one
shared future. He became part of our melded fabric,
a tightly woven and inseparable strand in the
weave that was us. Just as we had helped shape
him into the family pet he would become, he
helped to shape us, as well—as a couple, as parents,
as animal lovers, as adults. Despite everything,
all the disappointments and unmet
expectations, Marley had given us a gift, at once
priceless and free. He taught us the art of unqualified
love. How to give it, how to accept it. Where
there is that, most of the other pieces fall into
place.
The summer after his death we installed a swimming
pool, and I could not help thinking how
much Marley, our tireless water dog, would have
loved it, loved it more than any of us possibly
could, even as he gouged the liner with his claws
and clogged the filter with his fur. Jenny marveled
at how easy it was to keep the house clean without
a dog shedding and drooling and tracking in dirt. I
admitted how nice it was to walk barefoot in the
grass without watching where I stepped. The garden
was definitely better off without a big, heavypawed
rabbit chaser crashing through it. No doubt
Marley & Me 413
about it, life without a dog was easier and immensely
simpler. We could take a weekend jaunt
without arranging boarding. We could go out to
dinner without worrying what family heirloom
was in jeopardy. The kids could eat without having
to guard their plates. The trash can didn’t have
to go up on the kitchen counter when we left.
Once again we could sit back and enjoy in peace
the wondrous show of a good lightning storm. I
especially liked the freedom of moving around the
house without a giant yellow magnet glued to my
heels.
Still, as a family, we were not quite whole.
One morning in late summer I came down for
breakfast, and Jenny handed me a section of the
newspaper folded over to expose an inside page.
“You’re not going to believe this,” she said.
Once a week, our local paper featured a dog
from a rescue shelter that needed a home. The
profile always featured a photograph of the dog,
its name, and a brief description, written as if the
dog were speaking in the first person, making its
own best case. It was a gimmick the shelter people
used to make the animals seem charming and
adorable. We always found the doggie resumes
amusing, if for no other reason than the effort
414 John Grogan
made to put the best shine on unwanted animals
that had already struck out at least once.
On this day, staring up from the page at me was
a face I instantly recognized. Our Marley. Or at
least a dog that could have been his identical twin.
He was a big male yellow Lab with an anvil head,
furrowed brow, and floppy ears cocked back at a
comical angle. He stared directly into the camera
lens with a quivering intensity that made you just
know that seconds after the picture was snapped
he had knocked the photographer to the ground
and tried to swallow the camera. Beneath the
photo was the name: Lucky. I read his sales pitch
aloud. This is what Lucky had to say about himself:
“Full of zip! I would do well in a home that is
quiet while I am learning how to control my energy
level. I have not had an easy life so my new
family will need to be patient with me and continue
to teach me my doggie manners.”
“My God,” I exclaimed. “It’s him. He’s back
from the dead.”
“Reincarnation,” Jenny said.
It was uncanny how much Lucky looked like
Marley and how much the description fit him, too.
Full of zip? Problem controlling energy? Working
on doggie manners? Patience required? We were
well familiar with those euphemisms, having used
them ourselves. Our mentally unbalanced dog was
Marley & Me 415
back, young and strong again, and wilder than
ever. We both stood there, staring at the newspaper,
not saying anything.
“I guess we could go look at him,” I finally said.
“Just for the fun of it,” Jenny added.
“Right. Just out of curiosity.”
“What’s the harm of looking?”
“No harm at all,” I agreed.
“Well then,” she said, “why not?”
“What do we have to lose?”

Acknowledgments
No man is an island, authors included, and I
would like to thank the many people whose
support helped me bring this book to fruition. At
the top of the list, let me start by expressing my
deep appreciation to my agent, the talented and
indefatigable Laurie Abkemeier of DeFiore and
Company, who believed in this story and my ability
to tell it even before I fully did myself. I am
convinced that without her unflagging enthusiasm
and coaching, this book would still be locked in
my head. Thank you, Laurie, for being my confidante,
my advocate, my friend.
My heartfelt thanks to my wonderful editor,
Mauro DiPreta, whose judicious and intelligent editing
made this a better book, and to the always
cheerful Joelle Yudin, who kept track of all the details.
Thanks also to Michael Morrison, Lisa Gal418
Acknowledgments
lagher, Seale Ballenger, Ana Maria Allessi, Christine
Tanigawa, Richard Aquan, and everyone in the
HarperCollins group for falling in love with Marley
and his story, and making my dream a reality.
I owe a debt to my editors at the Philadelphia Inquirer
for rescuing me from my self-imposed exile
from the newspaper business that I love so much,
and for giving me the priceless gift of my own column
in one of America’s greatest newspapers.
I am beyond grateful to Anna Quindlen whose
early enthusiasm and encouragement meant more
to me than she will ever know.
A hearty thank-you to Jon Katz, who gave me
valuable advice and feedback, and whose books, especially
A Dog Year: Twelve Months, Four Dogs,
and Me, inspired me.
To Jim Tolpin, a busy lawyer who always found
the time to give me free and sage advice. To Pete
and Maureen Kelly, whose companionship—and
cottage overlooking Lake Huron—was the tonic I
needed. To Ray and JoAnn Smith for being there
when I needed them most, and to Timothy R.
Smith for the beautiful music that made me cry.
To Digger Dan for the steady supply of smoked
meats, and to my siblings, Marijo, Timothy, and
Michael Grogan, for the cheerleading. To Maria
Rodale for trusting me with a beloved family heirloom
and helping me find my balance. To all those
Acknowledgments 419
friends and colleagues too numerous to mention
for their kindness, support, and good wishes . . .
thank you all.
I could not have even contemplated this project
without my mother, Ruth Marie Howard Grogan,
who taught me early on the joy of a good tale well
told and shared her gift for storytelling with me.
With sadness, I remember and honor my biggest
fan of all, my father Richard Frank Grogan, who
died on December 23, 2004, as this book was going
into production. He did not get the chance to
read it, but I was able to sit with him one night as
his health failed and read the few opening chapters
aloud, even making him laugh. That smile, I will
remember forever.
I owe a huge debt to my lovely and patient wife,
Jenny, and my children, Patrick, Conor, and
Colleen, for allowing me to trot them out into the
public spotlight, sharing the most intimate of details.
You guys are good sports, and I love you beyond
words.
Finally (yes, last once again), I need to thank
that pain-in-the-ass four-legged friend of mine,
without whom there would be no Marley & Me.
He’d be happy to know that his debt for all the
shredded mattresses, gouged drywall, and swallowed
valuables is now officially satisfied in full.
About the Author
John Grogan is the Pennsylvania columnist for
the Philadelphia Inquirer and the former editor
in chief of Rodale’s Organic Gardening magazine.
Previously he worked as a reporter, bureau
chief, and columnist at newspapers in Michigan
and Florida. His work has won numerous awards,
including the National Press Club’s Consumer
Journalism Award. He lives on a wooded hillside
in Pennsylvania with his wife, Jenny, three children,
and a surprisingly calm Labrador retriever
named Gracie.
Credits
Designed by Renato Stanisic
Jacket design by Chika Azuma
Copyright
MARLEY & ME. COPYRIGHT © 2005 by John Grogan. All rights reserved
under International and Pan-American Copyright Conventions. By
payment of the required fees, you have been granted the non-exclusive,
non-transferable right to access and read the text of this e-book onscreen.
No part of this text may be reproduced, transmitted, downloaded,
decompiled, reverse engineered, or stored in or introduced into
any information storage and retrieval system, in any form or by any
means, whether electronic or mechanical, now known or hereinafter
invented, without the express written permission of PerfectBound™.
PerfectBound™ and the PerfectBound™ logo are trademarks of
HarperCollins Publishers, Inc.
Adobe Acrobat eBook Reader October 2005 ISBN 0-06-082707-6
Grogan, John, 1957–
Marley & me: life and love with the world’s worst dog / John Grogan.
1st ed.
p. cm.
ISBN-13: 978-0-06-081708-4
ISBN-10: 0-06-081708-9
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
About the Publisher
Australia
HarperCollins Publishers (Australia) Pty. Ltd.
25 Ryde Road (PO Box 321)
Pymble, NSW 2073, Australia
http://www.perfectbound.com.au
Canada
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
55 Avenue Road, Suite 2900
Toronto, ON, M5R, 3L2, Canada
http://www.perfectbound.ca
New Zealand
HarperCollinsPublishers (New Zealand) Limited
P.O. Box 1
Auckland, New Zealand
http://www.harpercollins.co.nz
United Kingdom
HarperCollins Publishers Ltd.
77-85 Fulham Palace Road
London, W6 8JB, UK
http://www.uk.perfectbound.com
United States
HarperCollins Publishers Inc.
10 East 53rd Street
New York, NY 10022
http://www.perfectbound.com